the  project  gutenberg  ebook  of  pride  and  by  jane  this  ebook  is  for  the  use  of  anyone  anywhere  in  the  united  states  most  other  parts  of  the  world  at  no  cost  and  with  almost  no  whatsoever.  you  may  copy  give  it  away  or  use  it  under  the  of  the  project  gutenberg  license  included  with  this  ebook  or  online  www.gutenberg.org.  if  you  are  not  located  in  the  united  will  have  to  check  the  laws  of  the  country  where  you  are  located  using  this  title:  pride  and  author:  jane  release  date:  1998  ebook  most  recently  updated:  february  language:  character  set  encoding:  produced  by:  anonymous  volunteers  and  david  ***  start  of  the  project  gutenberg  ebook  pride  and  prejudice  there  is  an  illustrated  edition  of  this  title  which  may  viewed  at  42671  pride  and  by  jane  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  chapter  it  is  a  truth  universally  that  a  single  man  possession  of  a  good  must  be  in  want  of  a  however  little  known  the  feelings  or  views  of  such  a  man  may  on  his  first  entering  a  this  truth  is  so  fixed  in  the  minds  of  the  surrounding  that  he  considered  the  rightful  property  of  some  one  or  other  of  my  dear  mr.  said  his  lady  to  him  one  have  heard  that  netherfield  park  is  let  at  mr.  bennet  replied  that  he  had  but  it  returned  she;  for  mrs.  long  has  just  been  she  told  me  all  about  mr.  bennet  made  no  do  you  not  want  to  know  who  has  taken  cried  his  want  to  tell  and  i  have  no  objection  to  hearing  this  was  invitation  my  you  must  mrs.  long  says  that  netherfield  taken  by  a  young  man  of  large  fortune  from  the  north  of  that  he  came  down  on  monday  in  a  chaise  and  four  to  see  and  was  so  much  delighted  with  that  he  agreed  with  morris  immediately;  that  he  is  to  take  possession  and  some  of  his  servants  are  to  be  in  the  house  the  end  of  next  what  is  his  is  he  married  or  oh!  my  to  be  sure!  a  single  man  of  large  four  or  five  thousand  a  year.  what  a  fine  thing  for  our  how  so?  how  can  it  affect  my  dear  mr.  replied  his  how  can  you  be  tiresome!  you  must  know  that  i  am  thinking  of  his  marrying  one  is  that  his  design  in  settling  design!  how  can  you  talk  so!  but  it  is  very  that  he  fall  in  love  with  one  of  and  therefore  must  visit  him  as  soon  as  he  i  see  no  occasion  for  that.  you  and  the  girls  may  or  you  send  them  by  which  perhaps  will  be  still  as  you  are  as  handsome  as  any  of  mr.  bingley  may  like  the  best  of  the  my  you  flatter  me.  i  certainly  had  my  share  but  i  do  not  pretend  to  be  anything  extraordinary  when  a  woman  has  five  up  she  ought  to  give  thinking  of  her  own  in  such  a  woman  has  not  often  much  beauty  to  think  my  you  must  indeed  go  and  see  mr.  bingley  when  comes  into  the  it  is  more  than  i  engage  i  assure  but  consider  your  daughters.  only  think  what  an  establishment  would  be  for  one  of  them.  sir  william  and  lady  lucas  determined  to  merely  on  that  for  in  they  visit  no  newcomers.  indeed  you  must  for  it  will  impossible  for  to  visit  him  if  you  do  you  are  surely.  i  dare  say  mr.  bingley  will  very  glad  to  see  you;  and  i  will  send  a  few  lines  by  you  assure  him  of  my  hearty  consent  to  his  marrying  whichever  chooses  of  the  girls;  though  i  must  throw  in  a  good  word  for  little  i  desire  you  will  do  no  such  thing.  lizzy  is  not  a  bit  than  the  others;  and  i  am  sure  she  is  not  half  so  handsome  nor  half  so  humoured  as  lydia.  but  you  are  giving  the  they  have  none  of  them  much  to  recommend  replied  they  are  all  silly  and  ignorant  like  other  girls;  but  lizzy  something  more  of  quickness  than  her  mr.  how  can  you  abuse  your  own  children  in  such  a  you  take  delight  in  vexing  me.  you  have  no  compassion  for  my  you  mistake  my  dear.  i  have  a  high  respect  for  your  they  are  my  old  friends.  i  have  heard  you  mention  them  consideration  these  last  twenty  years  at  you  do  not  know  what  i  but  i  hope  you  will  get  over  and  live  to  see  many  young  of  four  thousand  a  year  come  into  the  it  will  be  no  use  to  if  twenty  such  should  since  will  not  visit  depend  upon  my  that  when  there  are  i  visit  them  mr.  bennet  was  so  odd  a  mixture  of  quick  sarcastic  and  that  the  experience  of  years  had  been  insufficient  to  make  his  wife  understand  character.  mind  was  less  difficult  to  develop.  she  was  woman  of  mean  little  and  temper.  when  she  was  she  fancied  herself  the  business  of  her  life  was  to  get  her  daughters  married;  solace  was  visiting  and  chapter  mr.  bennet  was  among  the  earliest  of  those  who  waited  on  bingley.  he  had  always  intended  to  visit  though  to  the  always  assuring  his  wife  that  he  should  not  go;  and  till  evening  after  the  visit  was  paid  she  had  no  knowledge  of  it.  was  then  disclosed  in  the  following  manner.  observing  his  daughter  employed  in  trimming  a  he  suddenly  addressed  i  hope  mr.  bingley  will  like  we  are  not  in  a  way  to  know  mr.  bingley  said  mother  since  we  are  not  to  but  you  said  that  we  shall  meet  at  the  and  that  mrs.  long  promised  to  introduce  i  do  not  believe  mrs.  long  will  do  any  such  thing.  she  has  nieces  of  her  own.  she  is  a  hypocritical  and  have  no  opinion  of  no  more  have  said  mr.  bennet;  and  i  am  glad  to  find  you  do  not  depend  on  her  serving  mrs.  bennet  deigned  not  to  make  any  unable  to  began  scolding  one  of  her  t  keep  coughing  for  s  sake!  have  a  compassion  on  my  nerves.  you  tear  them  to  kitty  has  no  discretion  in  her  said  her  father;  times  them  i  do  not  cough  for  my  own  replied  kitty  when  is  your  next  ball  to  morrow  so  it  cried  her  and  mrs.  long  does  not  back  till  the  day  before;  so  it  will  be  impossible  for  her  introduce  for  she  will  not  know  him  my  you  may  have  the  advantage  of  your  introduce  mr.  bingley  to  mr.  when  i  am  not  with  him  myself;  how  can  you  be  so  i  honour  your  circumspection.  a  s  acquaintance  certainly  very  little.  one  cannot  know  what  a  man  really  is  the  end  of  a  fortnight.  but  if  do  not  venture  somebody  will;  and  after  mrs.  long  and  her  nieces  must  stand  chance;  as  she  will  think  it  an  act  of  if  you  decline  the  i  will  take  it  on  the  girls  stared  at  their  father.  mrs.  bennet  said  what  can  be  the  meaning  of  that  emphatic  cried  do  you  consider  the  forms  of  and  the  stress  is  laid  on  as  nonsense?  i  cannot  quite  agree  with  .  what  say  mary?  for  you  are  a  young  lady  of  i  and  read  great  books  and  make  mary  wished  to  say  something  but  knew  not  while  mary  is  adjusting  her  he  let  us  to  mr.  i  am  sick  of  mr.  cried  his  i  am  sorry  to  hear  ;  but  why  did  not  you  tell  me  before?  if  i  had  known  as  much  this  morning  i  certainly  would  have  called  on  him.  it  is  very  unlucky;  but  as  i  have  paid  the  we  cannot  escape  the  acquaintance  the  astonishment  of  the  ladies  was  just  what  he  wished;  that  mrs.  bennet  perhaps  surpassing  the  rest;  when  the  tumult  of  joy  was  she  began  to  declare  that  it  was  what  had  expected  all  the  how  good  it  was  in  my  dear  mr.  bennet!  but  i  knew  i  persuade  you  at  last.  i  was  sure  you  loved  your  girls  too  well  neglect  such  an  acquaintance.  how  pleased  i  am!  and  it  such  a  good  that  you  should  have  gone  this  morning  never  said  a  word  about  it  till  you  may  cough  as  much  as  you  said  bennet;  as  he  he  left  the  fatigued  with  raptures  of  his  what  an  excellent  father  you  said  when  door  was  shut.  i  do  not  know  how  you  will  ever  make  him  for  his  kindness;  or  for  that  matter.  at  our  time  life  it  is  not  so  i  can  tell  to  be  making  acquaintances  every  day;  but  for  your  we  would  anything.  my  though  you  the  i  say  mr.  bingley  will  dance  with  you  at  the  next  said  lydia  i  am  not  afraid;  for  though  i  m  the  the  rest  of  the  evening  was  spent  in  conjecturing  how  soon  would  return  mr.  s  and  determining  when  they  ask  him  to  chapter  not  all  that  mrs.  with  the  assistance  of  five  could  ask  on  the  was  sufficient  to  from  her  husband  any  satisfactory  description  of  mr.  they  attacked  him  in  various  with  barefaced  ingenious  and  distant  surmises;  but  he  eluded  skill  of  them  and  they  were  at  last  obliged  to  accept  hand  intelligence  of  their  lady  lucas.  report  was  highly  favourable.  sir  william  had  been  delighted  him.  he  was  quite  wonderfully  to  crown  the  he  meant  to  be  at  the  assembly  with  a  large  party.  nothing  could  be  more  delightful!  be  fond  of  dancing  was  a  certain  step  towards  falling  in  and  very  lively  hopes  of  mr.  s  heart  were  if  i  can  but  see  one  of  my  daughters  happily  settled  said  mrs.  bennet  to  her  and  all  others  equally  well  i  shall  have  nothing  to  wish  in  a  few  days  mr.  bingley  returned  mr.  s  and  about  ten  minutes  with  him  in  his  library.  he  had  hopes  of  being  admitted  to  a  sight  of  the  young  of  beauty  he  had  heard  much;  but  he  saw  only  the  father.  the  were  somewhat  more  for  they  had  the  advantage  ascertaining  from  an  upper  window  that  he  wore  a  blue  rode  a  black  an  invitation  to  dinner  was  soon  afterwards  dispatched;  already  had  mrs.  bennet  planned  the  courses  that  were  to  credit  to  her  when  an  answer  arrived  which  it  all.  mr.  bingley  was  obliged  to  be  in  town  the  following  unable  to  accept  the  honour  of  etc.  mrs.  bennet  was  quite  disconcerted.  she  not  imagine  what  business  he  could  have  in  town  so  soon  after  arrival  in  hertfordshire;  and  she  began  to  fear  that  he  might  always  flying  about  from  one  place  to  and  never  at  netherfield  as  he  ought  to  be.  lady  lucas  quieted  her  fears  little  by  starting  the  idea  of  his  being  gone  to  london  only  get  a  large  party  for  the  ball;  and  a  report  soon  followed  mr.  bingley  was  to  bring  twelve  ladies  and  seven  gentlemen  him  to  the  assembly.  the  girls  grieved  over  such  a  number  but  were  comforted  the  day  before  the  ball  by  that  instead  of  twelve  he  brought  only  six  with  him  his  five  sisters  and  a  cousin.  and  when  the  party  the  assembly  room  it  consisted  of  only  five  his  two  the  husband  of  the  and  young  mr.  bingley  was  looking  and  gentlemanlike;  he  had  a  and  unaffected  manners.  his  sisters  were  with  an  air  of  decided  fashion.  his  merely  looked  the  gentleman;  but  his  friend  mr.  darcy  drew  the  attention  of  the  room  by  his  tall  noble  and  the  report  which  was  in  circulation  within  five  minutes  after  his  of  his  ten  thousand  a  year.  the  gentlemen  pronounced  him  to  be  a  figure  of  a  the  ladies  declared  he  was  much  handsomer  mr.  and  he  was  looked  at  with  great  admiration  for  half  the  till  his  manners  gave  a  disgust  which  the  tide  of  his  popularity;  for  he  was  discovered  to  be  proud;  be  above  his  and  above  being  pleased;  and  not  all  large  estate  in  derbyshire  could  then  save  him  from  having  a  disagreeable  and  being  unworthy  to  compared  with  his  mr.  bingley  had  soon  made  himself  acquainted  with  all  principal  people  in  the  room;  he  was  lively  and  danced  every  was  angry  that  the  ball  closed  so  talked  of  giving  one  himself  at  netherfield.  such  qualities  must  speak  for  themselves.  what  a  contrast  between  and  his  friend!  mr.  darcy  danced  only  once  with  mrs.  hurst  once  with  miss  declined  being  introduced  to  any  and  spent  the  rest  of  the  evening  in  walking  about  speaking  occasionally  to  one  of  his  own  party.  character  was  decided.  he  was  the  most  disagreeable  in  the  and  everybody  hoped  that  he  would  never  come  again.  amongst  the  most  violent  against  him  was  mrs.  whose  dislike  of  his  general  behaviour  was  sharpened  particular  resentment  by  his  having  slighted  one  of  elizabeth  bennet  had  been  by  the  scarcity  of  to  sit  down  for  two  dances;  and  during  part  of  that  darcy  had  been  standing  near  enough  for  her  to  hear  conversation  between  him  and  mr.  who  came  from  the  for  a  few  to  press  his  friend  to  join  said  i  must  have  you  dance.  i  hate  to  see  standing  about  by  yourself  in  this  stupid  manner.  you  had  better  i  certainly  shall  not.  you  know  how  i  detest  unless  i  particularly  acquainted  with  my  partner.  at  such  an  assembly  this  it  would  be  insupportable.  your  sisters  are  there  is  not  another  woman  in  the  room  whom  it  would  not  be  punishment  to  me  to  stand  up  i  would  not  be  so  fastidious  as  you  cried  mr.  for  a  kingdom!  upon  my  i  never  met  with  so  many  girls  in  my  life  as  i  have  this  evening;  and  there  are  several  them  you  see  uncommonly  are  dancing  with  the  only  handsome  girl  in  the  mr.  looking  at  the  eldest  miss  oh!  she  is  the  most  beautiful  creature  i  ever  beheld!  but  is  one  of  her  sisters  sitting  down  just  behind  who  is  and  i  dare  say  very  agreeable.  do  let  me  ask  my  to  introduce  which  do  you  and  turning  round  he  looked  for  a  moment  till  catching  her  he  withdrew  his  own  and  said:  she  is  but  not  handsome  enough  to  tempt  ;  am  in  no  humour  at  present  to  give  consequence  to  young  who  are  slighted  by  other  men.  you  had  better  return  to  partner  and  enjoy  her  for  you  are  wasting  your  time  mr.  bingley  followed  his  advice.  mr.  darcy  walked  off;  elizabeth  remained  with  no  very  cordial  feelings  toward  him.  told  the  with  great  spirit  among  her  friends;  she  had  a  playful  which  delighted  anything  the  evening  altogether  passed  off  pleasantly  to  the  whole  mrs.  bennet  had  seen  her  eldest  daughter  much  admired  by  netherfield  party.  mr.  bingley  had  danced  with  her  and  had  been  distinguished  by  his  sisters.  jane  was  as  much  by  this  as  her  mother  could  though  in  a  quieter  elizabeth  felt  s  pleasure.  mary  had  heard  herself  to  miss  bingley  as  the  most  accomplished  girl  in  neighbourhood;  and  catherine  and  lydia  had  been  fortunate  never  to  be  without  which  was  all  that  they  had  learnt  to  care  for  at  a  ball.  they  in  spirits  to  the  village  where  they  and  of  they  were  the  principal  inhabitants.  they  found  mr.  bennet  up.  with  a  book  he  was  regardless  of  time;  and  on  the  occasion  he  had  a  good  deal  of  curiosity  as  to  the  event  of  evening  which  had  raised  such  splendid  expectations.  he  rather  hoped  that  his  s  views  on  the  stranger  would  disappointed;  but  he  soon  found  out  that  he  had  a  different  to  my  dear  mr.  as  she  entered  the  we  have  had  most  delightful  a  most  excellent  ball.  i  wish  you  been  there.  jane  was  so  nothing  could  be  like  everybody  said  how  well  she  looked;  and  mr.  bingley  thought  quite  and  danced  with  her  twice!  only  think  of  my  dear;  he  actually  danced  with  her  twice!  and  she  was  the  creature  in  the  room  that  he  asked  a  second  time.  first  of  he  asked  miss  lucas.  i  was  so  vexed  to  see  him  stand  up  with  he  did  not  admire  her  at  all;  nobody  you  know;  and  he  seemed  quite  struck  with  jane  as  she  was  down  the  dance.  so  he  enquired  who  she  and  got  and  asked  her  for  the  two  next.  then  the  two  third  he  danced  miss  and  the  two  fourth  with  maria  and  the  two  with  jane  and  the  two  sixth  with  and  if  he  had  had  any  compassion  for  cried  her  he  would  not  have  danced  half  so  much!  for  say  no  more  of  his  partners.  oh  that  he  had  sprained  ankle  in  the  first  oh!  my  i  am  quite  delighted  with  him.  he  is  so  handsome!  and  his  sisters  are  charming  women.  i  never  in  my  saw  anything  more  elegant  than  their  dresses.  i  dare  say  the  upon  mrs.  s  here  she  was  interrupted  again.  mr.  bennet  protested  against  description  of  finery.  she  was  therefore  obliged  to  seek  branch  of  the  and  with  much  bitterness  spirit  and  some  the  shocking  rudeness  of  mr.  but  i  can  assure  she  that  lizzy  does  not  lose  by  not  suiting  fancy;  for  he  is  a  most  not  at  all  worth  pleasing.  so  high  and  so  conceited  there  was  no  enduring  him!  he  walked  and  he  walked  fancying  himself  so  very  great!  not  handsome  enough  to  with!  i  wish  you  had  been  my  to  have  given  him  of  your  downs.  i  quite  detest  the  chapter  when  jane  and  elizabeth  were  the  who  had  cautious  in  her  praise  of  mr.  bingley  expressed  to  sister  just  how  very  much  she  admired  he  is  just  what  a  young  man  ought  to  said  lively;  and  i  never  saw  such  happy  much  with  such  perfect  good  he  is  also  replied  which  a  young  ought  likewise  to  if  he  possibly  can.  his  character  thereby  i  was  very  much  flattered  by  his  asking  me  to  dance  a  time.  i  did  not  expect  such  a  did  not  you?  did  for  you.  but  that  is  one  great  between  us.  compliments  always  take  by  and  never.  what  could  be  more  natural  than  his  asking  you  again?  could  not  help  seeing  that  you  were  about  five  times  as  pretty  every  other  woman  in  the  room.  no  thanks  to  his  gallantry  that.  he  certainly  is  very  and  i  give  you  to  like  him.  you  have  liked  many  a  stupider  dear  oh!  you  are  a  great  deal  too  you  to  like  people  general.  you  never  see  a  fault  in  anybody.  all  the  world  are  and  agreeable  in  your  eyes.  i  never  heard  you  speak  ill  of  human  being  in  your  i  would  not  wish  to  be  hasty  in  censuring  anyone;  but  i  speak  what  i  i  know  you  do;  and  it  is  which  makes  the  wonder.  good  to  be  so  honestly  blind  to  the  follies  nonsense  of  others!  affectation  of  candour  is  common  meets  with  it  everywhere.  but  to  be  candid  without  ostentation  to  take  the  good  of  s  character  and  make  still  and  say  nothing  of  the  belongs  to  you  and  so  you  like  this  s  do  you?  their  are  not  equal  to  certainly  at  first.  but  they  are  very  pleasing  women  you  converse  with  them.  miss  bingley  is  to  live  with  her  and  keep  his  house;  and  i  am  much  mistaken  if  we  shall  not  find  very  charming  neighbour  in  elizabeth  listened  in  but  was  not  convinced;  behaviour  at  the  assembly  had  not  been  calculated  to  please  general;  and  with  more  quickness  of  observation  and  less  of  temper  than  her  and  with  a  judgement  too  unassailed  any  attention  to  she  was  very  little  disposed  to  them.  they  were  in  fact  very  fine  ladies;  not  deficient  in  humour  when  they  were  nor  in  the  power  of  themselves  agreeable  when  they  chose  but  proud  and  they  were  rather  had  been  educated  in  one  of  the  private  seminaries  in  had  a  fortune  of  twenty  were  in  the  habit  of  spending  more  than  they  of  associating  with  people  of  and  were  therefore  in  respect  entitled  to  think  well  of  and  meanly  others.  they  were  of  a  respectable  family  in  the  north  england;  a  circumstance  more  deeply  impressed  on  their  than  that  their  s  fortune  and  their  own  had  been  by  mr.  bingley  inherited  property  to  the  amount  of  nearly  a  thousand  pounds  from  his  who  had  intended  to  purchase  but  did  not  live  to  do  it.  mr.  bingley  intended  and  sometimes  made  choice  of  his  county;  but  as  he  now  provided  with  a  good  house  and  the  liberty  of  a  it  doubtful  to  many  of  those  who  best  knew  the  easiness  of  whether  he  might  not  spend  the  remainder  of  his  days  and  leave  the  next  generation  to  his  sisters  were  anxious  for  his  having  an  estate  of  his  though  he  was  now  only  established  as  a  miss  was  by  no  means  unwilling  to  preside  at  his  nor  was  who  had  married  a  man  of  more  fashion  than  disposed  to  consider  his  house  as  her  home  when  it  suited  mr.  bingley  had  not  been  of  age  two  when  he  was  tempted  an  accidental  recommendation  to  look  at  netherfield  house.  he  look  at  and  into  it  for  was  pleased  with  situation  and  the  principal  satisfied  with  what  the  said  in  its  and  took  it  between  him  and  darcy  there  was  a  very  steady  spite  of  great  opposition  of  character.  bingley  was  endeared  darcy  by  the  and  ductility  of  his  though  no  disposition  could  offer  a  greater  contrast  to  his  and  though  with  his  own  he  never  appeared  dissatisfied.  on  strength  of  s  bingley  had  the  firmest  of  his  judgement  the  highest  opinion.  in  darcy  the  superior.  bingley  was  by  no  means  but  darcy  clever.  he  was  at  the  same  time  and  his  though  were  not  in  that  respect  his  friend  had  greatly  the  advantage.  bingley  sure  of  being  liked  wherever  he  darcy  was  giving  the  manner  in  which  they  spoke  of  the  meryton  assembly  sufficiently  characteristic.  bingley  had  never  met  with  pleasant  people  or  prettier  girls  in  his  life;  everybody  had  most  kind  and  attentive  to  him;  there  had  been  no  stiffness;  he  had  soon  felt  acquainted  with  all  the  room;  to  miss  he  could  not  conceive  an  angel  more  on  the  had  seen  a  collection  of  people  in  there  was  little  beauty  and  no  for  none  of  whom  he  felt  the  smallest  and  from  none  received  attention  or  pleasure.  miss  bennet  he  acknowledged  to  be  but  she  smiled  too  mrs.  hurst  and  her  sister  allowed  it  to  be  but  still  admired  her  and  liked  and  pronounced  her  to  be  a  sweet  and  one  whom  they  would  not  object  to  know  more  of.  miss  was  therefore  established  as  a  sweet  and  their  brother  authorized  by  such  commendation  to  think  of  her  as  he  chapter  within  a  short  walk  of  longbourn  lived  a  family  with  whom  bennets  were  particularly  intimate.  sir  william  lucas  had  formerly  in  trade  in  where  he  had  made  a  and  risen  to  the  honour  of  knighthood  by  an  address  the  king  during  his  mayoralty.  the  distinction  had  perhaps  felt  too  strongly.  it  had  given  him  a  disgust  to  his  and  to  his  residence  in  a  small  market  town;  in  them  he  had  removed  with  his  family  to  a  house  about  a  from  denominated  from  that  period  lucas  where  could  think  with  pleasure  of  his  own  by  occupy  himself  solely  in  being  civil  to  all  world.  though  elated  by  his  it  did  not  render  supercilious;  on  the  he  was  all  attention  to  by  nature  and  his  at  st.  s  had  made  him  lady  lucas  was  a  very  good  kind  of  not  too  clever  to  be  valuable  neighbour  to  mrs.  bennet.  they  had  several  children.  eldest  of  a  intelligent  young  was  s  intimate  that  the  miss  lucases  and  the  miss  bennets  should  meet  to  over  a  ball  was  absolutely  necessary;  and  the  morning  after  assembly  brought  the  former  to  longbourn  to  hear  and  began  the  evening  said  mrs.  bennet  civil  command  to  miss  lucas.  were  mr.  s  yes;  but  he  seemed  to  like  his  second  oh!  you  mean  i  because  he  danced  with  her  to  be  sure  that  seem  as  if  he  admired  indeed  i  believe  he  i  heard  something  about  but  i  hardly  something  about  mr.  perhaps  you  mean  what  i  overheard  between  him  and  mr.  did  not  i  mention  it  to  you?  mr.  s  asking  him  how  liked  our  meryton  and  whether  he  did  not  think  were  a  great  many  pretty  women  in  the  and  thought  the  prettiest?  and  his  answering  immediately  to  the  question:  oh!  the  eldest  miss  beyond  a  doubt;  cannot  be  two  opinions  on  that  upon  my  word!  that  is  very  decided  that  does  as  it  may  all  come  to  you  overhearings  were  more  to  the  purpose  than  said  charlotte.  mr.  darcy  is  not  so  well  worth  listening  to  his  is  poor  to  be  only  just  i  beg  you  would  not  put  it  into  s  head  to  be  vexed  by  for  he  is  such  a  disagreeable  that  it  be  quite  a  misfortune  to  be  liked  by  him.  mrs.  long  told  me  night  that  he  sat  close  to  her  for  hour  without  opening  his  are  you  quite  is  not  there  a  little  jane.  i  certainly  saw  mr.  darcy  speaking  to  because  she  asked  him  at  last  how  he  liked  he  could  not  help  answering  her;  but  she  said  he  seemed  angry  at  being  spoke  miss  bingley  told  said  that  he  never  speaks  unless  among  his  intimate  acquaintances.  with  he  remarkably  i  do  not  believe  a  word  of  my  dear.  if  he  had  been  so  he  would  have  talked  to  mrs.  long.  but  i  can  guess  it  was;  everybody  says  that  he  is  eat  up  with  and  i  say  he  had  heard  somehow  that  mrs.  long  does  not  keep  a  and  had  come  to  the  ball  in  a  hack  i  do  not  mind  his  not  talking  to  mrs.  said  miss  but  i  wish  he  had  danced  with  another  said  her  i  would  not  dance  if  i  were  i  i  may  safely  promise  you  to  dance  his  said  miss  does  not  offend  so  much  pride  often  because  there  is  an  excuse  for  it.  one  wonder  that  so  very  fine  a  young  with  everything  in  his  should  think  highly  of  himself.  if  may  so  express  he  has  a  to  be  that  is  very  replied  and  i  could  forgive  if  he  had  not  mortified  observed  who  piqued  herself  upon  the  solidity  her  is  a  very  common  i  believe.  by  that  i  have  ever  i  am  convinced  that  it  is  very  indeed;  that  human  nature  is  particularly  prone  to  and  there  are  very  few  of  us  who  do  not  cherish  a  feeling  complacency  on  the  score  of  some  quality  or  real  imaginary.  vanity  and  pride  are  different  though  words  are  often  used  synonymously.  a  person  may  be  proud  being  vain.  pride  relates  more  to  our  opinion  of  vanity  to  what  we  would  have  others  think  of  if  i  were  as  rich  as  mr.  cried  a  young  who  with  his  i  should  not  care  how  proud  i  was.  i  keep  a  pack  of  and  drink  a  bottle  of  wine  a  then  you  would  drink  a  great  deal  more  than  you  mrs.  bennet;  and  if  i  were  to  see  you  at  i  should  take  your  bottle  the  boy  protested  that  she  should  not;  she  continued  to  that  she  and  the  argument  ended  only  with  the  chapter  the  ladies  of  longbourn  soon  waited  on  those  of  netherfield.  visit  was  soon  returned  in  due  form.  miss  s  manners  grew  on  the  goodwill  of  mrs.  hurst  and  miss  bingley;  though  the  mother  was  found  to  be  and  the  sisters  not  worth  speaking  a  wish  of  being  better  with  was  expressed  towards  the  two  eldest.  by  attention  was  received  with  the  greatest  but  still  saw  superciliousness  in  their  treatment  of  hardly  excepting  even  her  and  could  not  like  them;  their  kindness  to  such  as  it  had  a  value  as  arising  all  probability  from  the  influence  of  their  s  it  was  generally  evident  whenever  they  that  he  her  and  to  it  was  equally  evident  that  jane  was  yielding  the  preference  which  she  had  begun  to  entertain  for  him  from  and  was  in  a  way  to  be  very  much  in  love;  but  considered  with  pleasure  that  it  was  not  likely  to  be  by  the  world  in  since  jane  with  great  of  a  composure  of  temper  and  a  uniform  cheerfulness  manner  which  would  guard  her  from  the  suspicions  of  impertinent.  she  mentioned  this  to  her  friend  miss  it  may  perhaps  be  replied  to  be  able  impose  on  the  public  in  such  a  case;  but  it  is  sometimes  disadvantage  to  be  so  very  guarded.  if  a  woman  conceals  affection  with  the  same  skill  from  the  object  of  she  may  the  opportunity  of  fixing  him;  and  it  will  then  be  but  consolation  to  believe  the  world  equally  in  the  dark.  there  is  much  of  gratitude  or  vanity  in  almost  every  that  is  not  safe  to  leave  any  to  itself.  we  can  all  slight  preference  is  natural  enough;  but  there  are  very  few  of  who  have  heart  enough  to  be  really  in  love  without  in  nine  cases  out  of  ten  a  woman  had  better  show  than  she  feels.  bingley  likes  your  sister  undoubtedly;  but  he  never  do  more  than  like  if  she  does  not  help  him  but  she  does  help  him  as  much  as  her  nature  will  allow.  can  perceive  her  regard  for  he  must  be  a  not  to  discover  it  that  he  does  not  know  s  disposition  as  but  if  a  woman  is  partial  to  a  and  does  not  endeavour  conceal  he  must  find  it  perhaps  he  if  he  sees  enough  of  her.  though  and  jane  meet  tolerably  it  is  never  for  many  together;  as  they  always  see  each  other  in  large  it  is  impossible  that  every  moment  should  be  employed  conversing  together.  jane  should  therefore  make  the  most  of  hour  in  which  she  can  command  his  attention.  when  she  secure  of  there  will  be  more  leisure  for  falling  in  love  much  as  she  your  plan  is  a  good  replied  where  nothing  in  question  but  the  desire  of  being  well  and  if  i  determined  to  get  a  rich  or  any  i  dare  say  should  adopt  it.  but  these  are  not  s  feelings;  she  is  acting  by  design.  as  she  cannot  even  be  certain  of  degree  of  her  own  regard  nor  of  its  reasonableness.  she  has  him  only  a  fortnight.  she  danced  four  dances  with  him  at  she  saw  him  one  morning  at  his  own  and  has  since  with  him  in  company  four  times.  this  is  not  quite  enough  to  her  understand  his  not  as  you  represent  it.  had  she  merely  with  might  only  have  discovered  whether  he  had  a  good  appetite;  you  must  remember  that  four  evenings  have  also  been  and  four  evenings  may  do  a  great  yes;  these  four  evenings  have  enabled  them  to  ascertain  they  both  like  un  better  than  commerce;  but  with  respect  any  other  leading  i  do  not  imagine  that  much  been  said  i  wish  jane  success  with  all  my  and  if  she  were  married  to  him  i  should  think  she  as  good  a  chance  of  happiness  as  if  she  were  to  be  studying  character  for  a  twelvemonth.  happiness  in  marriage  is  entirely  matter  of  chance.  if  the  dispositions  of  the  parties  are  ever  well  known  to  each  other  or  ever  so  similar  it  not  advance  their  felicity  in  the  least.  they  always  continue  grow  sufficiently  unlike  afterwards  to  have  their  share  vexation;  and  it  is  better  to  know  as  little  as  possible  of  defects  of  the  person  with  whom  you  are  to  pass  your  you  make  me  charlotte;  but  it  is  not  sound.  you  know  is  not  and  that  you  would  never  act  in  this  way  occupied  in  observing  mr.  s  attentions  to  her  elizabeth  was  far  from  suspecting  that  she  was  herself  an  object  of  some  interest  in  the  eyes  of  his  friend.  mr.  had  at  first  scarcely  allowed  her  to  be  pretty;  he  had  looked  her  without  admiration  at  the  ball;  and  when  they  next  looked  at  her  only  to  criticise.  but  no  sooner  had  he  made  clear  to  himself  and  his  friends  that  she  hardly  had  a  feature  in  her  than  he  began  to  find  it  was  uncommonly  intelligent  by  the  beautiful  expression  of  her  eyes.  to  this  discovery  succeeded  some  others  equally  though  he  had  detected  with  a  critical  eye  more  than  one  of  perfect  symmetry  in  her  he  was  forced  to  acknowledge  figure  to  be  light  and  pleasing;  and  in  spite  of  his  that  her  manners  were  not  those  of  the  fashionable  he  caught  by  their  easy  playfulness.  of  this  she  was  unaware;  to  her  he  was  only  the  man  who  made  himself  and  who  had  not  thought  her  handsome  enough  to  he  began  to  wish  to  know  more  of  and  as  a  step  conversing  with  her  attended  to  her  conversation  others.  his  doing  so  drew  her  notice.  it  was  at  sir  where  a  large  party  were  what  does  mr.  darcy  said  she  to  by  to  my  conversation  with  colonel  that  is  a  question  which  mr.  darcy  only  can  but  if  he  does  it  any  more  i  shall  certainly  let  him  know  that  see  what  he  is  about.  he  has  a  very  satirical  and  if  i  not  begin  by  being  impertinent  i  shall  soon  grow  of  on  his  approaching  them  soon  though  without  to  have  any  intention  of  miss  lucas  defied  her  to  mention  such  a  subject  to  him;  which  immediately  elizabeth  to  do  she  turned  to  him  and  did  you  not  mr.  that  i  expressed  myself  well  just  when  i  was  teasing  colonel  forster  to  give  us  ball  at  with  great  energy;  but  it  is  always  a  subject  which  makes  a  you  are  severe  on  it  will  be  turn  soon  to  be  said  miss  lucas.  i  going  to  open  the  and  you  know  what  you  are  a  very  strange  creature  by  way  of  a  wanting  me  to  play  and  sing  before  anybody  and  everybody!  if  vanity  had  taken  a  musical  you  would  have  been  but  as  it  i  would  really  rather  not  sit  down  before  those  must  be  in  the  habit  of  hearing  the  very  best  miss  s  she  very  if  must  be  it  and  gravely  glancing  at  mr.  is  a  fine  old  which  everybody  here  is  of  course  with:  keep  your  breath  to  cool  your  ;  and  i  shall  mine  to  swell  my  her  performance  was  though  by  no  means  capital.  after  song  or  and  before  she  could  reply  to  the  entreaties  several  that  she  would  sing  she  was  eagerly  succeeded  the  instrument  by  her  sister  who  in  consequence  being  the  only  plain  one  in  the  worked  hard  for  and  was  always  impatient  for  mary  had  neither  genius  nor  taste;  and  though  vanity  had  her  it  had  given  her  likewise  a  pedantic  air  conceited  which  would  have  injured  a  higher  degree  excellence  than  she  had  reached.  easy  and  had  been  listened  to  with  much  more  though  not  half  so  well;  and  at  the  end  of  a  long  was  to  purchase  praise  and  gratitude  by  scotch  and  irish  at  request  of  her  younger  with  some  of  the  and  two  or  three  joined  eagerly  in  dancing  at  one  of  the  mr.  darcy  stood  near  them  in  silent  indignation  at  such  a  mode  passing  the  to  the  exclusion  of  all  was  too  much  engrossed  by  his  thoughts  to  perceive  that  william  lucas  was  his  till  sir  william  thus  what  a  charming  amusement  for  young  people  this  mr.  there  is  nothing  like  dancing  after  all.  i  consider  it  as  one  the  first  refinements  of  polished  sir;  and  it  has  the  advantage  also  of  being  in  amongst  the  less  polished  societies  of  the  world.  every  can  sir  william  only  smiled.  your  friend  performs  continued  after  a  on  seeing  bingley  join  the  group;  and  doubt  not  that  you  are  an  adept  in  the  science  you  saw  me  dance  at  i  and  received  no  inconsiderable  pleasure  from  sight.  do  you  often  dance  at  st.  do  you  not  think  it  would  be  a  proper  compliment  to  the  it  is  a  compliment  which  i  never  pay  to  any  place  if  i  can  you  have  a  house  in  i  mr.  darcy  i  had  once  had  some  thought  of  fixing  in  town  for  i  fond  of  superior  society;  but  i  did  not  feel  quite  certain  the  air  of  london  would  agree  with  lady  he  paused  in  hopes  of  an  answer;  but  his  companion  was  disposed  to  make  any;  and  elizabeth  at  that  instant  towards  he  was  struck  with  the  action  of  doing  a  gallant  and  called  out  to  my  dear  miss  why  are  you  not  dancing?  mr.  you  allow  me  to  present  this  young  lady  to  you  as  a  very  partner.  you  cannot  refuse  to  i  am  sure  when  so  beauty  is  before  taking  her  he  would  have  it  to  mr.  darcy  though  extremely  was  unwilling  to  receive  when  she  instantly  drew  and  with  some  discomposure  to  sir  i  have  not  the  least  intention  of  dancing.  entreat  you  not  to  suppose  that  i  moved  this  way  in  order  to  for  a  mr.  with  grave  requested  to  be  allowed  honour  of  her  but  in  vain.  elizabeth  was  determined;  did  sir  william  at  all  shake  her  purpose  by  his  attempt  you  excel  so  much  in  the  miss  that  it  is  cruel  deny  me  the  happiness  of  seeing  you;  and  though  this  dislikes  the  amusement  in  he  can  have  no  i  to  oblige  us  for  one  mr.  darcy  is  all  said  he  indeed;  considering  the  my  dear  we  cannot  wonder  at  his  for  who  would  to  such  a  elizabeth  looked  and  turned  away.  her  resistance  had  injured  her  with  the  and  he  was  thinking  of  her  some  when  thus  accosted  by  miss  i  can  guess  the  subject  of  your  i  should  imagine  you  are  considering  how  insupportable  it  would  be  to  pass  evenings  in  this  in  such  society;  and  indeed  i  am  quite  your  opinion.  i  was  never  more  annoyed!  the  and  the  the  and  yet  the  importance  of  those  people!  what  would  i  give  to  hear  your  strictures  on  your  conjecture  is  totally  i  assure  you.  my  mind  was  agreeably  engaged.  i  have  been  meditating  on  the  very  pleasure  which  a  pair  of  fine  eyes  in  the  face  of  a  pretty  can  miss  bingley  immediately  fixed  her  eyes  on  his  and  he  would  tell  her  what  lady  had  the  credit  of  inspiring  reflections.  mr.  darcy  replied  with  great  miss  elizabeth  miss  elizabeth  repeated  miss  bingley.  i  am  astonishment.  how  long  has  she  been  such  a  and  when  am  i  to  wish  you  that  is  exactly  the  question  which  i  expected  you  to  ask.  s  imagination  is  very  rapid;  it  jumps  from  admiration  from  love  to  in  a  moment.  i  knew  you  would  wishing  me  if  you  are  serious  about  i  shall  consider  the  matter  absolutely  settled.  you  will  be  having  a  charming  indeed;  of  she  will  always  be  at  pemberley  he  listened  to  her  with  perfect  indifference  while  she  chose  entertain  herself  in  this  manner;  and  as  his  composure  her  that  all  was  her  wit  flowed  chapter  mr.  s  property  consisted  almost  entirely  in  an  estate  two  thousand  a  unfortunately  for  his  in  default  of  heirs  on  a  distant  relation;  their  s  though  ample  for  her  situation  in  could  but  ill  supply  the  deficiency  of  his.  her  father  had  an  attorney  in  and  had  left  her  four  thousand  she  had  a  sister  married  to  a  mr.  who  had  been  a  to  their  father  and  succeeded  him  in  the  and  a  settled  in  london  in  a  respectable  line  of  the  village  of  longbourn  was  only  one  mile  from  meryton;  a  convenient  distance  for  the  young  who  were  tempted  thither  three  or  four  times  a  to  pay  their  duty  their  aunt  and  to  a  s  shop  just  over  the  way.  the  youngest  of  the  catherine  and  were  frequent  in  these  attentions;  their  minds  were  more  vacant  their  and  when  nothing  better  a  walk  meryton  was  necessary  to  amuse  their  morning  hours  and  conversation  for  the  evening;  and  however  bare  of  news  country  in  general  might  they  always  contrived  to  learn  from  their  aunt.  at  they  were  well  supplied  with  news  and  happiness  by  the  recent  arrival  of  a  regiment  in  the  neighbourhood;  it  was  to  remain  the  whole  and  meryton  was  the  their  visits  to  mrs.  phillips  were  now  productive  of  the  interesting  intelligence.  every  day  added  something  to  knowledge  of  the  names  and  connections.  their  were  not  long  a  and  at  length  they  began  to  know  officers  themselves.  mr.  phillips  visited  them  and  opened  to  his  nieces  a  store  of  felicity  unknown  before.  could  talk  of  nothing  but  officers;  and  mr.  s  the  mention  of  which  gave  animation  to  their  worthless  in  their  eyes  when  opposed  to  the  regimentals  of  after  listening  one  morning  to  their  effusions  on  this  mr.  bennet  coolly  from  all  that  i  can  collect  by  your  manner  of  you  be  two  of  the  silliest  girls  in  the  country.  i  have  suspected  some  but  i  am  now  catherine  was  and  made  no  answer;  but  perfect  continued  to  express  her  admiration  captain  and  her  hope  of  seeing  him  in  the  course  of  as  he  was  going  the  next  morning  to  i  am  my  said  mrs.  that  you  should  so  ready  to  think  your  own  children  silly.  if  i  wished  to  slightingly  of  s  it  should  not  be  of  my  if  my  children  are  i  must  hope  to  be  always  sensible  but  as  it  they  are  all  of  them  very  this  is  the  only  i  flatter  on  which  we  do  agree.  i  had  hoped  that  our  sentiments  coincided  in  but  i  must  so  far  differ  from  you  as  to  think  our  youngest  daughters  uncommonly  my  dear  mr.  you  must  not  expect  such  girls  to  have  sense  of  their  father  and  mother.  when  they  get  to  our  dare  say  they  will  not  think  about  officers  any  more  than  we  i  remember  the  time  when  i  liked  a  red  coat  myself  very  so  i  do  still  at  my  heart;  and  if  a  smart  young  with  five  or  six  thousand  a  should  want  one  of  my  girls  shall  not  say  nay  to  him;  and  i  thought  colonel  forster  very  becoming  the  other  night  at  sir  s  in  cried  my  aunt  says  that  colonel  forster  captain  carter  do  not  go  so  often  to  miss  s  as  they  when  they  first  came;  she  sees  them  now  very  often  standing  s  mrs.  bennet  was  prevented  replying  by  the  entrance  of  the  with  a  note  for  miss  bennet;  it  came  from  and  servant  waited  for  an  answer.  mrs.  s  eyes  sparkled  and  she  was  eagerly  calling  while  her  who  is  it  from?  what  is  it  about?  what  does  he  make  haste  and  tell  us;  make  my  it  is  from  miss  said  and  then  read  it  my  dear  if  you  are  not  so  compassionate  as  to  dine  day  with  and  we  shall  be  in  danger  of  hating  each  other  for  the  of  our  for  a  whole  s  between  two  can  never  end  without  a  quarrel.  come  as  soon  as  you  can  receipt  of  this.  my  brother  and  the  gentlemen  are  to  dine  the  yours  caroline  with  the  cried  lydia.  i  wonder  my  aunt  did  not  us  of  dining  said  mrs.  that  is  very  can  i  have  the  said  my  you  had  better  go  on  because  it  likely  to  rain;  and  then  you  must  stay  all  that  would  be  a  good  said  if  you  were  that  they  would  not  offer  to  send  her  oh!  but  the  gentlemen  will  have  mr.  s  chaise  to  go  and  the  hursts  have  no  horses  to  i  had  much  rather  go  in  the  my  your  father  cannot  spare  the  i  am  they  are  wanted  in  the  mr.  are  they  they  are  wanted  in  the  farm  much  oftener  than  i  can  get  but  if  you  have  got  them  said  my  purpose  will  be  she  did  at  last  extort  from  her  father  an  acknowledgment  that  horses  were  engaged.  jane  was  therefore  obliged  to  go  and  her  mother  attended  her  to  the  door  with  cheerful  prognostics  of  a  bad  day.  her  hopes  were  answered;  had  not  been  gone  long  before  it  rained  hard.  her  sisters  uneasy  for  but  her  mother  was  delighted.  the  rain  the  whole  evening  without  intermission;  jane  certainly  could  come  this  was  a  lucky  idea  of  said  mrs.  bennet  than  as  if  the  credit  of  making  it  rain  were  all  her  till  the  next  she  was  not  aware  of  all  felicity  of  her  contrivance.  breakfast  was  scarcely  over  when  servant  from  netherfield  brought  the  following  note  my  dearest  i  find  myself  very  unwell  this  i  is  be  imputed  to  my  getting  wet  through  yesterday.  my  kind  will  not  hear  of  my  returning  till  i  am  better.  they  insist  on  my  seeing  mr.  therefore  do  not  be  alarmed  if  you  hear  of  his  having  been  to  excepting  a  sore  throat  there  is  not  much  the  matter  with  my  said  mr.  when  elizabeth  had  read  note  if  your  daughter  should  have  a  dangerous  fit  if  she  should  it  would  be  a  comfort  to  know  that  was  all  in  pursuit  of  mr.  and  under  your  oh!  i  am  not  afraid  of  her  dying.  people  do  not  die  of  trifling  colds.  she  will  be  taken  good  care  of.  as  long  as  stays  it  is  all  very  well.  i  would  go  and  see  her  if  could  have  the  feeling  really  was  determined  to  go  to  though  the  carriage  was  not  to  be  had;  and  as  she  was  walking  was  her  only  alternative.  she  declared  how  can  you  be  so  cried  her  as  to  think  of  a  in  all  this  dirt!  you  will  not  be  fit  to  be  seen  you  get  i  shall  be  very  fit  to  see  which  is  all  i  is  this  a  hint  to  said  her  to  send  for  i  do  not  wish  to  avoid  the  walk.  the  distance  nothing  when  one  has  a  motive;  only  three  miles.  i  shall  be  by  i  admire  the  activity  of  your  observed  every  impulse  of  feeling  should  be  guided  by  reason;  in  exertion  should  always  be  in  proportion  to  what  we  will  go  as  far  as  meryton  with  said  catherine  lydia.  elizabeth  accepted  their  and  the  three  ladies  set  off  if  we  make  said  as  they  walked  perhaps  may  see  something  of  captain  carter  before  he  in  meryton  they  parted;  the  two  youngest  repaired  to  the  of  one  of  the  and  elizabeth  continued  her  crossing  field  after  field  at  a  quick  jumping  stiles  and  springing  over  puddles  with  impatient  finding  herself  at  last  within  view  of  the  with  dirty  and  a  face  glowing  with  the  warmth  she  was  shown  into  the  where  all  but  jane  and  where  her  appearance  created  a  great  deal  surprise.  that  she  should  have  walked  three  miles  so  early  in  in  such  dirty  and  by  was  almost  to  mrs.  hurst  and  miss  bingley;  and  elizabeth  was  convinced  they  held  her  in  contempt  for  it.  she  was  politely  by  them;  and  in  their  s  manners  there  something  better  than  politeness;  there  was  good  humour  kindness.  mr.  darcy  said  very  and  mr.  hurst  nothing  all.  the  former  was  divided  between  admiration  of  the  which  exercise  had  given  to  her  and  doubt  as  to  s  justifying  her  coming  so  far  alone.  the  latter  thinking  only  of  his  her  enquiries  after  her  sister  were  not  very  favourably  miss  bennet  had  slept  and  though  was  very  not  well  enough  to  leave  her  room.  elizabeth  was  glad  to  be  to  her  immediately;  and  who  had  only  been  withheld  by  fear  of  giving  alarm  or  inconvenience  from  expressing  in  her  how  much  she  longed  for  such  a  was  delighted  at  entrance.  she  was  not  to  much  when  miss  bingley  left  them  could  attempt  besides  expressions  of  gratitude  for  the  extraordinary  she  was  treated  with.  elizabeth  silently  attended  when  breakfast  was  over  they  were  joined  by  the  sisters;  elizabeth  began  to  like  them  when  she  saw  how  affection  and  solicitude  they  showed  for  jane.  the  and  having  examined  his  as  might  that  she  had  caught  a  violent  and  that  they  endeavour  to  get  the  better  of  it;  advised  her  to  return  to  and  promised  her  some  draughts.  the  advice  was  followed  for  the  feverish  symptoms  and  her  head  ached  elizabeth  did  not  quit  her  room  for  a  moment;  nor  were  the  ladies  often  absent;  the  gentlemen  being  they  in  nothing  to  do  when  the  clock  struck  elizabeth  felt  that  she  must  very  unwillingly  said  so.  miss  bingley  offered  her  the  and  she  only  wanted  a  little  pressing  to  accept  when  testified  such  concern  in  parting  with  that  miss  bingley  obliged  to  convert  the  offer  of  the  chaise  to  an  invitation  remain  at  netherfield  for  the  present.  elizabeth  most  and  a  servant  was  dispatched  to  longbourn  to  the  family  with  her  stay  and  bring  back  a  supply  of  chapter  at  five  clock  the  two  ladies  retired  to  and  at  six  elizabeth  was  summoned  to  dinner.  to  the  civil  which  then  poured  and  amongst  which  she  had  the  pleasure  distinguishing  the  much  superior  solicitude  of  mr.  could  not  make  a  very  favourable  answer.  jane  was  by  no  better.  the  on  hearing  repeated  three  or  times  how  much  they  were  how  shocking  it  was  to  have  bad  and  how  excessively  they  disliked  being  ill  and  then  thought  no  more  of  the  matter:  and  their  towards  jane  when  not  immediately  before  them  restored  to  the  enjoyment  of  all  her  former  their  was  the  only  one  of  the  party  whom  could  regard  with  any  complacency.  his  anxiety  for  jane  and  his  attentions  to  herself  most  and  prevented  her  feeling  herself  so  much  an  intruder  as  she  she  was  considered  by  the  others.  she  had  very  little  notice  any  but  him.  miss  bingley  was  engrossed  by  mr.  her  scarcely  less  so;  and  as  for  mr.  by  whom  elizabeth  was  an  indolent  who  lived  only  to  and  play  cards;  when  he  found  her  to  prefer  a  plain  dish  to  a  had  nothing  to  say  to  when  dinner  was  she  returned  directly  to  and  bingley  began  abusing  her  as  soon  as  she  was  out  of  the  room.  manners  were  pronounced  to  be  very  bad  a  mixture  of  and  impertinence;  she  had  no  no  no  mrs.  hurst  thought  the  and  she  has  in  to  recommend  but  being  excellent  walker.  i  shall  never  forget  her  appearance  morning.  she  really  looked  almost  she  louisa.  i  could  hardly  keep  my  very  nonsensical  to  come  at  all!  why  must  be  about  the  because  her  sister  had  a  cold?  her  so  and  her  petticoat;  i  hope  you  saw  her  six  deep  in  i  am  absolutely  certain;  and  the  gown  which  had  let  down  to  hide  it  not  doing  its  your  picture  may  be  very  said  bingley;  but  was  all  lost  upon  me.  i  thought  miss  elizabeth  bennet  remarkably  well  when  she  came  into  the  room  this  morning.  dirty  petticoat  quite  escaped  my  observed  mr.  i  am  said  miss  and  i  am  inclined  to  think  that  you  would  not  wish  to  see  make  such  an  certainly  to  walk  three  or  four  or  five  or  it  above  her  ankles  in  and  quite  alone!  could  she  mean  by  it?  it  seems  to  me  to  show  an  abominable  of  conceited  a  most  town  indifference  it  shows  an  affection  for  her  sister  that  is  very  said  i  am  mr.  observed  miss  bingley  in  a  that  this  adventure  has  rather  affected  your  of  her  fine  not  at  he  replied;  they  were  brightened  by  the  a  short  pause  followed  this  and  mrs.  hurst  began  i  have  an  excessive  regard  for  miss  jane  she  is  really  very  sweet  and  i  wish  with  all  my  heart  she  were  settled.  but  with  such  a  father  and  and  such  i  am  afraid  there  is  no  chance  of  i  think  i  have  heard  you  say  that  their  uncle  is  an  attorney  yes;  and  they  have  who  lives  somewhere  near  that  is  added  her  and  they  both  if  they  had  uncles  enough  to  fill  it  would  not  make  them  one  jot  less  but  it  must  very  materially  lessen  their  chance  of  marrying  of  any  consideration  in  the  replied  to  this  speech  bingley  made  no  answer;  but  his  sisters  gave  their  hearty  and  indulged  their  mirth  for  some  time  the  expense  of  their  dear  s  vulgar  with  a  renewal  of  they  returned  to  her  on  leaving  the  and  sat  with  her  till  summoned  coffee.  she  was  still  very  and  elizabeth  would  not  her  at  till  late  in  the  when  she  had  the  comfort  seeing  her  and  when  it  seemed  to  her  rather  right  pleasant  that  she  should  go  downstairs  herself.  on  entering  room  she  found  the  whole  party  at  and  immediately  invited  to  join  them;  but  suspecting  them  to  playing  high  she  declined  and  making  her  sister  the  said  she  would  amuse  herself  for  the  short  time  she  could  with  a  book.  mr.  hurst  looked  at  her  with  do  you  prefer  reading  to  said  he;  that  is  miss  eliza  said  miss  despises  cards.  she  is  great  and  has  no  pleasure  in  anything  i  deserve  neither  such  praise  nor  such  elizabeth;  i  am  a  great  and  i  have  pleasure  many  in  nursing  your  sister  i  am  sure  you  have  bingley;  and  i  hope  it  will  be  soon  increased  by  seeing  quite  elizabeth  thanked  him  from  her  and  then  walked  towards  table  where  a  few  books  were  lying.  he  immediately  offered  fetch  her  all  that  his  library  and  i  wish  my  collection  were  larger  for  your  benefit  and  my  credit;  but  i  am  an  idle  and  though  i  have  not  have  more  than  i  ever  looked  elizabeth  assured  him  that  she  could  suit  herself  perfectly  those  in  the  i  am  said  miss  that  my  father  should  left  so  small  a  collection  of  books.  what  a  delightful  you  have  at  mr.  it  ought  to  be  he  it  has  been  the  work  of  and  then  you  have  added  so  much  to  it  you  are  buying  i  cannot  comprehend  the  neglect  of  a  family  library  in  such  as  neglect!  i  am  sure  you  neglect  nothing  that  can  add  to  beauties  of  that  noble  place.  when  you  build  i  wish  it  may  be  half  as  delightful  as  i  wish  it  but  i  would  really  advise  you  to  make  your  purchase  in  and  take  pemberley  for  a  kind  of  model.  there  not  a  finer  county  in  england  than  with  all  my  heart;  i  will  buy  pemberley  itself  if  darcy  sell  i  am  talking  of  upon  my  i  should  think  it  more  possible  to  pemberley  by  purchase  than  by  elizabeth  was  so  much  caught  with  what  as  to  leave  very  little  attention  for  her  book;  and  soon  laying  it  she  drew  near  the  and  stationed  between  mr.  bingley  and  his  eldest  to  observe  the  is  miss  darcy  much  grown  since  the  said  miss  will  she  be  as  tall  as  i  i  think  she  will.  she  is  now  about  miss  elizabeth  or  rather  how  i  long  to  see  her  again!  i  never  met  with  anybody  delighted  me  so  much.  such  a  such  manners!  and  extremely  accomplished  for  her  age!  her  performance  on  pianoforte  is  it  is  amazing  to  said  how  young  ladies  can  patience  to  be  so  very  accomplished  as  they  all  all  young  ladies  accomplished!  my  dear  what  do  all  of  i  think.  they  all  paint  cover  and  net  purses.  i  scarcely  know  anyone  who  cannot  do  all  and  i  am  sure  i  never  heard  a  young  lady  spoken  of  for  the  without  being  informed  that  she  was  very  your  list  of  the  common  extent  of  said  has  too  much  truth.  the  word  is  applied  to  many  a  woman  deserves  it  no  otherwise  than  by  netting  a  purse  or  covering  screen.  but  i  am  very  far  from  agreeing  with  you  in  estimation  of  ladies  in  general.  i  cannot  boast  of  knowing  than  in  the  whole  range  of  my  are  really  nor  i  am  said  miss  observed  you  must  comprehend  a  great  deal  your  idea  of  an  accomplished  i  do  comprehend  a  great  deal  in  oh!  cried  his  faithful  no  one  can  really  esteemed  accomplished  who  does  not  greatly  surpass  what  usually  met  with.  a  woman  must  have  a  thorough  knowledge  and  the  modern  deserve  the  word;  and  besides  all  she  must  possess  certain  something  in  her  air  and  manner  of  the  tone  her  her  address  and  or  the  word  will  be  all  this  she  must  added  and  to  all  this  must  yet  add  something  more  in  the  improvement  her  mind  by  extensive  i  am  no  longer  surprised  at  your  knowing  six  women.  i  rather  wonder  now  at  your  knowing  are  you  so  severe  upon  your  own  sex  as  to  doubt  the  of  all  never  saw  such  a  woman.  never  saw  such  and  and  as  you  describe  mrs.  hurst  and  miss  bingley  both  cried  out  against  the  of  her  implied  and  were  both  protesting  that  they  many  women  who  answered  this  when  mr.  hurst  them  to  with  bitter  complaints  of  their  inattention  what  was  going  forward.  as  all  conversation  was  thereby  at  elizabeth  soon  afterwards  left  the  elizabeth  said  miss  when  the  door  was  on  is  one  of  those  young  ladies  who  seek  to  themselves  to  the  other  sex  by  undervaluing  their  own;  and  many  i  dare  it  succeeds.  in  my  it  is  paltry  a  very  mean  replied  to  whom  this  remark  was  there  is  a  meanness  in  the  arts  which  sometimes  condescend  to  employ  for  captivation.  whatever  affinity  to  cunning  is  miss  bingley  was  not  so  entirely  satisfied  with  this  reply  as  continue  the  elizabeth  joined  them  again  only  to  say  that  her  sister  and  that  she  could  not  leave  her.  bingley  urged  mr.  being  sent  for  immediately;  while  his  convinced  that  country  advice  could  be  of  any  recommended  an  express  town  for  one  of  the  most  eminent  physicians.  this  she  would  hear  of;  but  she  was  not  so  unwilling  to  comply  with  s  proposal;  and  it  was  settled  that  mr.  jones  should  sent  for  early  in  the  if  miss  bennet  were  not  better.  bingley  was  quite  uncomfortable;  his  sisters  that  they  were  miserable.  they  solaced  their  by  duets  after  while  he  could  find  no  relief  to  his  feelings  than  by  giving  his  housekeeper  that  every  attention  might  be  paid  to  the  sick  lady  and  chapter  elizabeth  passed  the  chief  of  the  night  in  her  s  in  the  morning  had  the  pleasure  of  being  able  to  send  a  answer  to  the  enquiries  which  she  very  early  received  from  bingley  by  a  and  some  time  afterwards  from  the  elegant  ladies  who  waited  on  his  sisters.  in  spite  of  she  requested  to  have  a  note  sent  desiring  her  mother  to  visit  and  form  her  judgement  of  her  situation.  the  note  was  immediately  and  its  contents  as  quickly  complied  with.  mrs.  accompanied  by  her  two  youngest  reached  netherfield  after  the  family  had  she  found  jane  in  any  apparent  mrs.  bennet  would  been  very  miserable;  but  being  satisfied  on  seeing  her  that  illness  was  not  she  had  no  wish  of  her  as  her  restoration  to  health  would  probably  her  from  netherfield.  she  would  not  to  s  proposal  of  being  carried  home;  neither  did  who  arrived  about  the  same  think  it  at  advisable.  after  sitting  a  little  while  with  on  s  appearance  and  the  mother  and  daughters  all  attended  her  into  the  breakfast  parlour.  met  them  with  hopes  that  mrs.  bennet  had  not  found  miss  worse  than  she  indeed  i  was  her  answer.  she  is  a  great  deal  ill  to  be  moved.  mr.  jones  says  we  must  not  think  of  moving  we  must  trespass  a  little  longer  on  your  cried  bingley.  it  must  not  be  thought  of.  my  i  am  will  not  hear  of  her  you  may  depend  upon  said  miss  with  that  miss  bennet  will  receive  every  possible  while  she  remains  with  mrs.  bennet  was  profuse  in  her  i  am  she  if  it  was  not  for  such  good  friends  i  not  know  what  would  become  of  for  she  is  very  ill  and  suffers  a  vast  though  with  the  greatest  patience  in  which  is  always  the  way  with  for  she  the  sweetest  temper  i  have  ever  met  with.  i  often  my  other  girls  they  are  nothing  to  .  you  have  a  sweet  mr.  and  a  charming  prospect  over  the  gravel  i  do  not  know  a  place  in  the  country  that  is  equal  netherfield.  you  will  not  think  of  quitting  it  in  a  though  you  have  but  a  short  whatever  i  do  is  done  in  a  replied  he;  and  therefore  i  should  resolve  to  quit  i  should  probably  be  off  five  minutes.  at  i  consider  myself  as  fixed  that  is  exactly  what  i  should  have  supposed  of  you  begin  to  comprehend  do  cried  turning  oh!  i  understand  you  i  wish  i  might  take  this  for  a  compliment;  but  to  be  so  seen  through  i  am  afraid  is  that  is  as  it  happens.  it  does  not  follow  that  a  character  is  more  or  less  estimable  than  such  a  one  as  cried  her  remember  where  you  and  do  run  on  in  the  wild  manner  that  you  are  suffered  to  do  at  i  did  not  know  continued  bingley  that  were  a  studier  of  character.  it  must  be  an  amusing  but  intricate  characters  are  the  amusing.  they  at  least  that  the  said  can  in  general  supply  but  a  subjects  for  such  a  study.  in  a  country  neighbourhood  you  move  a  very  confined  and  unvarying  but  people  themselves  alter  so  that  there  is  something  to  be  observed  in  them  for  cried  mrs.  offended  by  his  manner  mentioning  a  country  neighbourhood.  i  assure  you  there  is  as  much  of  going  on  in  the  country  as  in  everybody  was  and  after  looking  at  her  for  turned  silently  away.  mrs.  who  fancied  she  gained  a  complete  victory  over  continued  her  i  cannot  see  that  london  has  any  great  advantage  over  for  my  except  the  shops  and  public  places.  country  is  a  vast  deal  is  it  mr.  when  i  am  in  the  he  i  never  wish  to  it;  and  when  i  am  in  town  it  is  pretty  much  the  same.  they  each  their  and  i  can  be  equally  happy  in  that  is  because  you  have  the  right  disposition.  but  looking  at  seemed  to  think  the  country  nothing  at  you  are  said  blushing  her  mother.  you  quite  mistook  mr.  darcy.  he  only  meant  there  was  not  such  a  variety  of  people  to  be  met  with  in  country  as  in  the  which  you  must  acknowledge  to  be  my  nobody  said  there  were;  but  as  to  meeting  with  many  people  in  this  i  believe  are  few  neighbourhoods  larger.  i  know  we  dine  twenty  nothing  but  concern  for  elizabeth  could  enable  bingley  to  his  countenance.  his  sister  was  less  and  directed  eyes  towards  mr.  darcy  with  a  very  expressive  smile.  for  the  sake  of  saying  something  that  might  turn  her  now  asked  her  if  charlotte  lucas  had  been  at  since  coming  she  called  yesterday  with  her  father.  what  an  agreeable  sir  william  mr.  is  not  he?  so  much  the  man  fashion!  so  genteel  and  easy!  he  has  always  something  to  say  everybody.  is  my  idea  of  good  breeding;  and  those  who  fancy  themselves  very  and  never  open  their  quite  mistake  the  did  charlotte  dine  with  she  would  go  home.  i  fancy  she  was  wanted  about  pies.  for  my  mr.  always  keep  that  can  do  their  own  work;  daughters  are  brought  up  differently.  but  everybody  is  to  judge  for  and  lucases  are  a  very  good  sort  of  i  assure  you.  it  is  a  they  are  not  handsome!  not  that  think  charlotte  so  but  then  she  is  our  particular  she  seems  a  very  pleasant  young  oh!  yes;  but  you  must  own  she  is  very  plain.  lady  herself  has  often  said  and  envied  me  s  beauty.  i  do  like  to  boast  of  my  own  but  to  be  one  does  often  see  anybody  better  looking.  it  is  what  everybody  says.  i  not  trust  my  own  partiality.  when  she  was  only  there  a  man  at  my  brother  s  in  town  so  much  in  love  with  that  my  law  was  sure  he  would  make  her  an  offer  we  came  away.  he  did  not.  perhaps  he  thought  too  young.  he  wrote  some  verses  on  and  very  they  and  so  ended  his  said  elizabeth  impatiently.  has  been  many  a  i  overcome  in  the  same  way.  i  who  first  discovered  the  efficacy  of  poetry  in  driving  i  have  been  used  to  consider  poetry  as  the  of  of  a  healthy  love  it  may.  everything  nourishes  is  strong  already.  but  if  it  be  only  a  thin  sort  i  am  convinced  that  one  good  sonnet  will  starve  entirely  darcy  only  smiled;  and  the  general  pause  which  ensued  elizabeth  tremble  lest  her  mother  should  be  exposing  again.  she  longed  to  but  could  think  of  nothing  to  and  after  a  short  silence  mrs.  bennet  began  repeating  her  to  mr.  bingley  for  his  kindness  to  with  an  apology  troubling  him  also  with  lizzy.  mr.  bingley  was  unaffectedly  in  his  and  forced  his  younger  sister  to  be  civil  and  say  what  the  occasion  required.  she  performed  her  part  without  much  but  mrs.  bennet  was  soon  afterwards  ordered  her  carriage.  upon  this  youngest  of  her  daughters  put  herself  forward.  the  two  girls  been  whispering  to  each  other  during  the  whole  and  result  of  it  that  the  youngest  should  tax  mr.  bingley  having  promised  on  his  first  coming  into  the  country  to  give  ball  at  lydia  was  a  grown  girl  of  with  a  complexion  and  humoured  countenance;  a  favourite  with  whose  affection  had  brought  her  into  public  at  an  age.  she  had  high  animal  and  a  sort  of  which  the  attention  of  the  to  her  s  good  and  her  own  easy  manners  had  increased  into  assurance.  she  was  very  to  address  mr.  bingley  on  the  subject  of  the  and  reminded  him  of  his  promise;  that  it  would  be  the  shameful  thing  in  the  world  if  he  did  not  keep  it.  his  answer  this  sudden  attack  was  delightful  to  their  s  i  am  perfectly  i  assure  to  keep  my  engagement;  when  your  sister  is  you  if  you  name  very  day  of  the  ball.  but  you  would  not  wish  to  be  dancing  she  is  lydia  declared  herself  satisfied.  oh!  it  would  be  better  to  wait  till  jane  was  and  by  that  time  most  captain  carter  would  be  at  meryton  again.  and  when  you  have  she  i  shall  insist  on  their  giving  also.  i  shall  tell  colonel  forster  it  will  be  quite  a  shame  if  does  mrs.  bennet  and  her  daughters  then  and  returned  instantly  to  leaving  her  own  and  her  behaviour  to  the  remarks  of  the  two  ladies  and  mr.  darcy;  latter  of  could  not  be  prevailed  on  to  join  their  censure  of  in  spite  of  all  miss  s  on  fine  chapter  the  day  passed  much  as  the  day  before  had  done.  mrs.  hurst  miss  bingley  had  spent  some  hours  of  the  morning  with  who  though  to  mend;  and  in  evening  elizabeth  joined  their  party  in  the  room.  did  not  appear.  mr.  darcy  was  miss  seated  near  was  watching  the  progress  of  letter  and  repeatedly  calling  off  his  attention  by  messages  his  sister.  mr.  hurst  and  mr.  bingley  were  at  and  hurst  was  observing  their  elizabeth  took  up  some  and  was  sufficiently  amused  attending  to  what  passed  between  darcy  and  his  companion.  perpetual  commendations  of  the  either  on  his  or  on  the  evenness  of  his  or  on  the  length  of  his  with  the  perfect  unconcern  with  which  her  praises  were  formed  a  curious  and  was  exactly  in  union  with  opinion  of  how  delighted  miss  darcy  will  be  to  receive  such  a  he  made  no  you  write  uncommonly  you  are  mistaken.  i  write  rather  how  many  letters  you  must  have  occasion  to  write  in  the  of  a  year!  letters  of  too!  how  odious  i  should  it  is  that  they  fall  to  my  lot  instead  pray  tell  your  sister  that  i  long  to  see  i  have  already  told  her  so  by  your  i  am  afraid  you  do  not  like  your  pen.  let  me  mend  it  for  you.  mend  pens  remarkably  thank  but  i  always  mend  my  how  can  you  contrive  to  write  so  he  was  tell  your  sister  i  am  delighted  to  hear  of  her  improvement  the  harp;  and  pray  let  her  know  that  i  am  quite  in  raptures  her  beautiful  little  design  for  a  and  i  think  infinitely  superior  to  miss  will  you  give  me  leave  to  defer  your  raptures  till  i  again?  at  present  i  have  not  room  to  do  them  oh!  it  is  of  no  consequence.  i  shall  see  her  in  january.  but  you  always  write  such  charming  long  letters  to  mr.  they  are  generally  long;  but  whether  always  charming  it  is  for  me  to  it  is  a  rule  with  that  a  person  who  can  write  a  long  with  cannot  write  that  will  not  do  for  a  compliment  to  cried  because  he  does  write  with  ease.  he  studies  much  for  words  of  four  syllables.  do  not  my  style  of  writing  is  very  different  from  cried  miss  charles  writes  in  the  most  way  imaginable.  he  leaves  out  half  his  and  blots  my  ideas  flow  so  rapidly  that  i  have  not  time  to  express  which  means  my  letters  sometimes  convey  no  ideas  at  all  to  your  mr.  said  must  nothing  is  more  said  than  the  appearance  humility.  it  is  often  only  carelessness  of  and  an  indirect  and  which  of  the  two  do  you  call  little  recent  piece  the  indirect  boast;  for  you  are  really  proud  of  your  defects  because  you  consider  them  as  proceeding  from  a  of  thought  and  carelessness  of  if  you  think  at  least  highly  interesting.  the  power  doing  anything  with  quickness  is  always  prized  much  by  and  often  without  any  attention  to  the  imperfection  the  performance.  when  you  told  mrs.  bennet  this  morning  that  you  ever  resolved  upon  quitting  netherfield  you  should  be  gone  five  you  meant  it  to  be  a  sort  of  compliment  to  and  yet  what  is  there  so  very  laudable  a  precipitance  which  must  leave  very  necessary  business  and  can  be  of  no  real  advantage  to  yourself  or  anyone  cried  this  is  too  to  remember  at  night  the  foolish  things  that  were  said  in  the  morning.  and  my  i  believe  what  i  said  of  myself  to  be  and  believe  it  at  this  moment.  at  i  did  not  the  character  of  needless  precipitance  merely  to  show  off  the  i  dare  say  you  believed  it;  but  i  am  by  no  means  convinced  you  would  be  gone  with  such  celerity.  your  conduct  would  be  as  dependent  on  chance  as  that  of  any  man  i  know;  and  as  were  mounting  your  a  friend  were  to  you  better  stay  till  next  you  would  probably  do  you  probably  not  and  at  another  might  stay  a  you  have  only  proved  by  cried  that  bingley  did  not  do  justice  to  his  own  disposition.  you  have  him  off  now  much  more  than  he  did  i  am  exceedingly  said  by  your  what  my  friend  says  into  a  compliment  on  the  sweetness  of  temper.  but  i  am  afraid  you  are  giving  it  a  turn  which  gentleman  did  by  no  means  intend;  for  he  would  certainly  better  of  if  under  such  a  circumstance  i  were  to  give  a  and  ride  off  as  fast  as  i  would  mr.  darcy  then  consider  the  rashness  of  your  intentions  as  atoned  for  by  your  obstinacy  in  adhering  to  upon  my  i  cannot  exactly  explain  the  matter;  darcy  speak  for  you  expect  me  to  account  for  opinions  which  you  choose  to  but  which  i  have  never  acknowledged.  allowing  the  to  stand  according  to  your  you  miss  that  the  friend  who  is  supposed  to  his  return  to  the  and  the  delay  of  his  has  desired  asked  it  without  offering  one  argument  in  favour  its  to  yield  to  the  of  a  friend  is  merit  with  to  yield  without  conviction  is  no  compliment  to  understanding  of  you  appear  to  mr.  to  allow  nothing  for  the  of  friendship  and  affection.  a  regard  for  the  requester  often  make  one  readily  yield  to  a  without  waiting  arguments  to  reason  one  into  it.  i  am  not  particularly  of  such  a  case  as  you  have  supposed  about  mr.  bingley.  we  may  well  till  the  circumstance  occurs  before  discuss  the  discretion  of  his  behaviour  thereupon.  but  in  and  ordinary  cases  between  friend  and  where  one  of  is  desired  by  the  other  to  change  a  resolution  of  no  very  should  you  think  ill  of  that  person  for  complying  the  without  waiting  to  be  argued  into  will  it  not  be  before  we  proceed  on  this  arrange  with  rather  more  precision  the  degree  of  importance  is  to  appertain  to  this  as  well  as  the  degree  intimacy  subsisting  between  the  by  all  cried  bingley;  let  us  hear  all  the  not  forgetting  their  comparative  height  and  size;  for  that  have  more  weight  in  the  miss  than  you  may  aware  of.  i  assure  that  if  darcy  were  not  such  a  great  in  comparison  with  i  should  not  pay  him  half  much  deference.  i  declare  i  do  not  know  a  more  awful  object  on  particular  and  in  particular  places;  at  own  house  and  of  a  sunday  when  he  nothing  to  mr.  darcy  smiled;  but  elizabeth  thought  she  could  perceive  he  was  rather  and  therefore  checked  her  laugh.  bingley  warmly  resented  the  indignity  he  had  in  expostulation  with  her  brother  for  talking  such  i  see  your  said  his  friend.  you  dislike  and  want  to  silence  perhaps  i  do.  arguments  are  too  much  like  disputes.  if  you  miss  bennet  will  defer  yours  till  i  am  out  of  the  i  be  very  thankful;  and  then  you  may  say  whatever  you  like  of  what  you  said  is  no  sacrifice  on  my  side;  mr.  darcy  had  much  better  finish  his  mr.  darcy  took  her  and  did  finish  his  when  that  business  was  he  applied  to  miss  bingley  elizabeth  for  an  indulgence  of  some  music.  miss  bingley  with  some  alacrity  to  the  pianoforte;  after  a  polite  that  elizabeth  would  lead  the  way  which  the  other  as  politely  more  earnestly  she  seated  mrs.  hurst  sang  with  her  and  while  they  were  elizabeth  could  not  help  as  she  turned  some  books  that  lay  on  the  how  frequently  s  eyes  were  fixed  on  her.  she  hardly  knew  how  to  that  she  could  be  an  object  of  admiration  to  so  great  a  man;  yet  that  he  should  look  at  her  because  he  disliked  was  more  strange.  she  could  only  at  last  that  drew  his  notice  because  there  was  something  more  wrong  according  to  his  ideas  of  than  in  any  person  present.  the  supposition  did  not  pain  her.  she  liked  too  little  to  care  for  his  after  playing  some  italian  miss  bingley  varied  the  by  a  lively  scotch  air;  and  soon  afterwards  mr.  near  said  to  do  not  you  feel  a  great  miss  to  seize  an  opportunity  of  dancing  a  she  but  made  no  answer.  he  repeated  the  some  surprise  at  her  said  i  heard  you  but  i  could  not  determine  what  to  say  in  reply.  you  wanted  i  to  that  you  might  have  the  pleasure  of  despising  my  but  i  always  delight  in  overthrowing  those  kind  of  cheating  a  person  of  their  premeditated  contempt.  i  made  up  my  mind  to  tell  that  i  do  not  want  dance  a  reel  at  and  now  despise  me  if  you  indeed  i  do  not  having  rather  expected  to  affront  was  amazed  his  gallantry;  but  there  was  a  mixture  of  sweetness  and  in  her  manner  which  made  it  difficult  for  her  to  affront  and  darcy  had  never  been  so  bewitched  by  any  woman  as  he  was  her.  he  really  that  were  it  not  for  the  inferiority  her  he  should  be  in  some  miss  bingley  or  suspected  enough  to  be  jealous;  and  great  anxiety  for  the  recovery  of  her  dear  friend  jane  some  assistance  from  her  desire  of  getting  rid  of  she  often  tried  to  provoke  darcy  into  disliking  her  talking  of  their  supposed  and  planning  his  happiness  such  an  i  said  as  they  were  walking  together  in  shrubbery  the  next  you  will  give  your  law  a  when  this  desirable  event  takes  as  to  the  of  holding  her  tongue;  and  if  you  can  compass  do  cure  younger  girls  of  running  after  officers.  if  i  may  mention  delicate  a  endeavour  to  check  that  little  bordering  on  conceit  and  which  your  have  you  anything  else  to  propose  for  my  domestic  oh!  yes.  do  let  the  portraits  of  your  uncle  and  aunt  phillips  placed  in  the  gallery  at  pemberley.  put  them  next  to  uncle  the  judge.  they  are  in  the  same  you  only  in  different  lines.  as  for  your  s  must  not  have  it  for  what  painter  could  do  justice  those  beautiful  it  would  not  be  to  catch  their  their  colour  and  and  the  so  remarkably  might  be  at  that  moment  they  were  met  from  another  walk  by  mrs.  hurst  elizabeth  i  did  not  know  that  you  intended  to  said  miss  some  lest  they  had  been  you  used  us  abominably  answered  mrs.  running  without  telling  us  that  you  were  coming  then  taking  the  disengaged  arm  of  mr.  she  left  to  walk  by  herself.  the  path  just  admitted  three.  mr.  darcy  their  and  immediately  this  walk  is  not  wide  enough  for  our  party.  we  had  better  into  the  but  who  had  not  the  least  inclination  to  remain  laughingly  no;  stay  where  you  are.  you  are  charmingly  appear  to  uncommon  advantage.  the  picturesque  would  be  spoilt  admitting  a  fourth.  she  then  ran  gaily  rejoicing  as  she  rambled  in  hope  of  being  at  home  again  in  a  day  or  two.  jane  was  already  much  recovered  as  to  intend  leaving  her  room  for  a  couple  hours  that  chapter  when  the  ladies  removed  after  elizabeth  ran  up  to  and  seeing  her  well  guarded  from  attended  her  the  where  she  was  welcomed  by  her  two  friends  many  professions  of  pleasure;  and  elizabeth  had  never  seen  so  agreeable  as  they  were  during  the  hour  which  passed  before  gentlemen  appeared.  their  powers  of  conversation  considerable.  they  could  describe  an  entertainment  with  relate  an  anecdote  with  and  laugh  at  their  with  but  when  the  gentlemen  jane  was  no  longer  the  object;  miss  s  eyes  were  instantly  turned  toward  and  she  had  something  to  say  to  him  before  he  had  advanced  steps.  he  addressed  himself  to  miss  with  a  congratulation;  mr.  hurst  also  made  her  a  slight  and  said  was  very  but  diffuseness  and  warmth  remained  s  salutation.  he  was  full  of  joy  and  attention.  the  hour  was  spent  in  piling  up  the  lest  she  should  from  the  change  of  room;  and  she  removed  at  his  desire  to  other  side  of  the  that  she  might  be  further  from  door.  he  then  sat  down  by  and  talked  scarcely  to  else.  at  work  in  the  opposite  saw  it  all  great  when  tea  was  mr.  hurst  reminded  his  law  of  but  in  vain.  she  had  obtained  private  that  mr.  darcy  did  not  wish  for  cards;  and  mr.  hurst  soon  even  his  open  petition  rejected.  she  assured  him  that  no  intended  to  and  the  silence  of  the  whole  party  on  subject  seemed  to  justify  her.  mr.  hurst  had  therefore  nothing  but  to  stretch  himself  on  one  of  the  sofas  and  go  to  darcy  took  up  a  book;  miss  bingley  did  the  same;  and  mrs.  principally  occupied  in  playing  with  her  bracelets  and  joined  now  and  then  in  her  s  conversation  with  miss  s  attention  was  quite  as  much  engaged  in  mr.  s  progress  through  as  in  reading  her  and  she  was  perpetually  either  making  some  or  looking  his  page.  she  could  not  win  to  any  conversation;  merely  answered  her  and  read  on.  at  exhausted  by  the  attempt  to  be  amused  with  her  own  she  had  only  chosen  because  it  was  the  second  volume  of  gave  a  great  yawn  and  how  pleasant  it  is  to  spend  evening  in  this  way!  i  declare  after  all  there  is  no  like  reading!  how  much  sooner  one  tires  of  anything  than  of  book!  when  i  have  a  house  of  my  i  shall  be  miserable  if  have  not  an  excellent  no  one  made  any  reply.  she  then  yawned  threw  aside  and  cast  her  eyes  round  the  room  in  quest  for  amusement;  when  hearing  her  brother  mentioning  a  ball  to  she  turned  suddenly  towards  him  and  by  the  are  you  really  serious  in  meditating  dance  at  netherfield?  i  would  advise  before  you  determine  to  consult  the  wishes  of  the  present  party;  i  am  mistaken  if  there  are  not  some  among  us  to  whom  a  ball  would  rather  a  punishment  than  a  if  you  mean  cried  her  he  may  go  to  if  before  it  but  as  for  the  it  is  quite  settled  thing;  and  as  soon  as  nicholls  has  made  white  i  shall  send  round  my  i  should  like  balls  infinitely  she  if  were  carried  on  in  a  different  manner;  but  there  is  insufferably  tedious  in  the  usual  process  of  such  a  meeting.  would  surely  be  much  more  rational  if  conversation  instead  dancing  were  made  the  order  of  the  much  more  my  dear  i  dare  but  it  not  be  near  so  much  like  a  miss  bingley  made  no  and  soon  afterwards  she  got  up  walked  about  the  room.  her  figure  was  and  she  well;  but  at  whom  it  was  all  was  still  studious.  in  the  desperation  of  her  she  resolved  on  effort  turning  to  miss  eliza  let  me  persuade  you  to  follow  my  take  a  turn  about  the  room.  i  assure  you  it  is  very  after  sitting  so  long  in  one  elizabeth  was  but  agreed  to  it  immediately.  bingley  succeeded  no  less  in  the  real  object  of  her  civility;  darcy  looked  up.  he  was  as  much  awake  to  the  novelty  of  in  that  quarter  as  elizabeth  herself  could  and  closed  his  book.  he  was  directly  invited  to  join  their  he  declined  observing  that  he  could  imagine  but  two  for  their  choosing  to  walk  up  and  down  the  room  either  of  which  motives  his  joining  them  would  interfere.  could  he  mean?  she  was  dying  to  know  what  could  be  and  asked  elizabeth  whether  she  could  at  all  not  at  was  her  answer;  but  depend  upon  he  means  to  severe  on  and  our  surest  way  of  disappointing  him  will  be  ask  nothing  about  miss  was  incapable  of  disappointing  mr.  in  and  persevered  therefore  in  requiring  an  of  his  two  i  have  not  the  smallest  objection  to  explaining  said  as  soon  as  she  allowed  him  to  speak.  you  either  choose  method  of  passing  the  evening  because  you  are  in  each  and  have  secret  affairs  to  or  because  are  conscious  that  your  figures  appear  to  the  greatest  in  walking;  if  the  i  would  be  completely  in  your  if  the  i  can  admire  you  much  better  as  i  sit  by  oh!  cried  miss  bingley.  i  never  heard  anything  abominable.  how  shall  we  punish  him  for  such  a  nothing  so  if  you  have  but  the  elizabeth.  we  can  all  plague  and  punish  one  another.  laugh  at  him.  intimate  as  you  you  must  know  how  it  is  be  but  upon  my  i  do  .  i  do  assure  you  that  my  has  not  yet  taught  me  .  tease  calmness  of  manner  presence  of  mind!  no;  i  feel  he  may  defy  us  there.  and  as  we  will  not  expose  if  you  attempting  to  laugh  without  a  subject.  mr.  darcy  may  mr.  darcy  is  not  to  be  laughed  cried  elizabeth.  that  is  uncommon  and  uncommon  i  hope  it  will  for  would  be  a  great  loss  to  to  have  many  such  acquaintances.  dearly  love  a  miss  said  has  given  me  more  credit  than  can  the  wisest  and  the  best  of  the  wisest  and  best  of  may  be  rendered  ridiculous  by  a  person  whose  first  in  life  is  a  replied  there  are  such  but  i  i  am  not  one  of  .  i  hope  i  never  ridicule  what  is  wise  good.  follies  and  whims  and  divert  i  and  i  laugh  at  them  whenever  i  can.  but  i  are  precisely  what  you  are  perhaps  that  is  not  possible  for  anyone.  but  it  has  been  study  of  my  life  to  avoid  those  weaknesses  which  often  expose  strong  understanding  to  such  as  vanity  and  vanity  is  a  weakness  indeed.  but  where  there  is  real  superiority  of  pride  will  be  always  under  elizabeth  turned  away  to  hide  a  your  examination  of  mr.  darcy  is  i  said  bingley;  and  pray  what  is  the  i  am  perfectly  convinced  by  it  that  mr.  darcy  has  no  defect.  owns  it  himself  without  said  i  have  made  no  such  pretension.  i  have  but  they  are  i  of  understanding.  my  temper  dare  not  vouch  for.  it  i  too  certainly  too  little  for  the  convenience  of  the  world.  cannot  forget  the  follies  and  vices  of  others  so  soon  as  i  nor  their  offenses  against  myself.  my  feelings  are  not  about  with  every  attempt  to  move  them.  my  temper  would  perhaps  called  resentful.  my  good  opinion  once  is  lost  is  a  failing  cried  elizabeth.  resentment  a  shade  in  a  character.  but  you  have  chosen  fault  well.  i  really  cannot  at  it.  you  are  safe  from  there  i  in  every  disposition  a  tendency  to  particular  a  natural  which  not  even  the  education  can  and  defect  is  to  hate  and  he  replied  with  a  is  willfully  misunderstand  do  let  us  have  a  little  cried  miss  tired  of  conversation  in  which  she  had  no  share.  you  will  mind  my  waking  mr.  her  sister  had  not  the  smallest  and  the  pianoforte  opened;  and  after  a  few  was  sorry  for  it.  he  began  to  feel  the  danger  of  paying  elizabeth  much  chapter  in  consequence  of  an  agreement  between  the  wrote  the  next  morning  to  their  to  beg  that  the  might  be  sent  for  them  in  the  course  of  the  day.  but  mrs.  who  had  calculated  on  her  daughters  remaining  at  netherfield  the  following  which  would  exactly  finish  s  could  not  bring  herself  to  receive  them  with  pleasure  before.  was  not  at  least  not  s  for  she  was  impatient  to  get  home.  bennet  sent  them  word  that  they  could  not  possibly  have  carriage  before  tuesday;  and  in  her  postscript  it  was  if  mr.  bingley  and  his  sister  pressed  them  to  stay  could  spare  them  very  well.  against  staying  elizabeth  was  positively  nor  did  she  much  expect  would  be  asked;  and  on  the  as  being  as  intruding  themselves  needlessly  she  urged  jane  to  mr.  s  carriage  and  at  length  it  was  that  their  original  design  of  leaving  netherfield  that  should  be  and  the  request  the  communication  excited  many  professions  of  concern;  and  was  said  of  wishing  them  to  stay  at  least  till  the  following  to  work  on  jane;  and  till  the  morrow  their  going  was  miss  bingley  was  then  sorry  that  she  had  proposed  the  her  jealousy  and  dislike  of  one  sister  much  exceeded  affection  for  the  the  master  of  the  house  heard  with  real  sorrow  that  they  were  go  so  and  repeatedly  tried  to  persuade  miss  bennet  that  would  not  be  safe  for  that  she  was  not  enough  recovered;  jane  was  firm  where  she  felt  herself  to  be  to  mr.  darcy  it  was  welcome  elizabeth  had  been  netherfield  long  enough.  she  attracted  him  more  than  he  miss  bingley  was  uncivil  to  and  more  teasing  than  usual  himself.  he  wisely  resolved  to  be  particularly  careful  that  sign  of  admiration  should  escape  nothing  that  elevate  her  with  the  hope  of  influencing  his  felicity;  that  if  such  an  idea  had  been  his  behaviour  during  last  day  must  have  material  weight  in  confirming  or  crushing  steady  to  his  he  scarcely  spoke  ten  words  to  her  the  whole  of  and  though  they  were  at  one  time  left  themselves  for  he  adhered  most  conscientiously  his  and  would  not  even  look  at  on  after  morning  the  so  agreeable  almost  took  place.  miss  s  civility  to  increased  at  last  very  as  well  as  her  affection  jane;  and  when  they  after  assuring  the  latter  of  pleasure  it  would  always  give  her  to  see  her  either  at  or  and  embracing  her  most  she  even  hands  with  the  former.  elizabeth  took  leave  of  the  whole  party  the  liveliest  of  they  were  not  welcomed  home  very  cordially  by  their  mother.  bennet  wondered  at  their  and  thought  them  very  wrong  give  so  much  and  was  sure  jane  would  have  caught  again.  but  their  though  very  laconic  in  his  of  was  really  glad  to  see  them;  he  had  felt  importance  in  the  family  circle.  the  evening  they  were  all  had  lost  much  of  its  almost  all  its  sense  by  the  absence  of  jane  and  they  found  as  deep  in  the  study  of  bass  human  nature;  and  had  some  extracts  to  and  some  observations  of  threadbare  morality  to  listen  to.  catherine  lydia  had  information  for  them  of  a  different  sort.  much  had  done  and  much  had  been  said  in  the  regiment  since  the  wednesday;  several  of  the  officers  had  dined  lately  with  a  private  had  been  and  it  had  actually  hinted  that  colonel  forster  was  going  to  be  chapter  i  my  said  mr.  bennet  to  his  as  they  were  breakfast  the  next  that  you  have  ordered  a  good  because  i  have  reason  to  expect  an  addition  to  our  who  do  you  my  dear?  i  know  of  nobody  that  is  i  unless  charlotte  lucas  should  happen  to  call  and  i  dinners  are  good  enough  for  her.  i  do  not  believe  she  sees  such  at  the  person  of  whom  i  speak  is  a  and  a  mrs.  s  eyes  sparkled.  a  gentleman  and  a  stranger!  it  mr.  i  am  sure!  i  am  sure  i  shall  be  extremely  to  see  mr.  bingley.  good  lord!  how  unlucky!  there  is  not  bit  of  fish  to  be  got  day.  my  ring  the  must  speak  to  hill  this  it  is  mr.  said  her  husband;  it  is  a  person  i  never  saw  in  the  whole  course  of  my  this  roused  a  general  astonishment;  and  he  had  the  pleasure  being  eagerly  questioned  by  his  wife  and  his  five  daughters  after  amusing  himself  some  time  with  their  he  about  a  month  ago  i  received  this  letter;  and  about  a  ago  i  answered  for  i  thought  it  a  case  of  some  requiring  early  attention.  it  is  from  my  mr.  when  i  am  may  turn  you  all  out  of  this  house  as  as  he  oh!  my  cried  his  i  cannot  bear  to  hear  mentioned.  pray  do  not  talk  of  that  odious  man.  i  do  think  it  the  hardest  thing  in  the  that  your  estate  should  entailed  away  from  your  own  children;  and  i  am  if  i  been  i  should  have  tried  long  ago  to  do  something  or  about  jane  and  elizabeth  tried  to  explain  to  her  the  nature  of  entail.  they  had  often  attempted  to  do  it  but  it  was  subject  on  which  mrs.  bennet  was  beyond  the  reach  of  she  continued  to  rail  bitterly  against  the  cruelty  of  settling  estate  away  from  a  family  of  five  in  favour  of  a  whom  nobody  cared  anything  it  certainly  is  a  most  iniquitous  said  mr.  nothing  can  clear  mr.  collins  from  the  guilt  of  longbourn.  but  if  you  will  listen  to  his  you  may  be  a  little  softened  by  his  manner  of  expressing  that  i  am  sure  i  shall  not;  and  i  think  it  is  impertinent  of  him  to  write  to  you  at  and  very  i  hate  such  false  friends.  why  could  he  not  keep  on  with  as  his  father  did  before  indeed;  he  does  seem  to  have  had  some  filial  scruples  that  as  you  will  near  th  dear  the  disagreement  subsisting  between  yourself  and  my  honoured  father  always  gave  me  much  and  since  i  had  the  misfortune  to  lose  i  have  frequently  wished  to  the  breach;  but  for  some  time  i  was  kept  back  by  my  own  fearing  lest  it  might  seem  disrespectful  to  his  memory  for  me  be  on  good  terms  with  anyone  with  whom  it  had  always  pleased  to  be  at  mrs.  my  is  made  up  on  the  for  having  received  ordination  at  i  have  been  so  fortunate  as  to  be  distinguished  by  the  of  the  right  honourable  lady  catherine  de  widow  of  lewis  de  whose  bounty  and  beneficence  has  preferred  me  the  valuable  rectory  of  this  where  it  shall  be  my  endeavour  to  demean  myself  with  grateful  respect  towards  and  be  ever  ready  to  perform  those  rites  and  which  are  instituted  by  the  church  of  england.  as  a  i  feel  it  my  duty  to  promote  and  establish  the  of  peace  in  all  families  within  the  reach  of  my  influence;  and  these  grounds  i  flatter  myself  that  my  present  overtures  highly  and  that  the  circumstance  of  my  being  next  the  entail  of  longbourn  estate  will  be  kindly  overlooked  on  and  not  lead  you  to  reject  the  offered  branch.  cannot  be  otherwise  than  concerned  at  being  the  means  of  your  amiable  and  beg  leave  to  apologise  for  well  as  to  assure  you  of  my  readiness  to  make  them  every  but  of  this  hereafter.  if  you  should  have  no  objection  receive  me  into  your  i  propose  myself  the  satisfaction  waiting  on  you  and  your  november  by  and  shall  probably  trespass  on  your  hospitality  till  saturday  ennight  which  i  can  do  without  as  lady  catherine  is  far  from  objecting  to  occasional  absence  on  a  provided  that  some  clergyman  is  engaged  to  do  the  duty  of  the  i  with  respectful  compliments  to  your  lady  and  wisher  and  william  at  four  we  may  expect  this  said  mr.  as  he  folded  up  the  letter.  seems  to  be  a  most  conscientious  and  polite  young  upon  and  i  doubt  not  will  prove  a  valuable  especially  if  lady  catherine  should  be  so  indulgent  as  to  let  come  to  us  there  is  some  sense  in  what  he  says  about  the  and  if  he  is  disposed  to  make  them  any  i  shall  not  be  person  to  discourage  though  it  is  said  to  guess  in  what  way  he  mean  to  make  us  the  atonement  he  thinks  our  the  wish  certainly  to  his  elizabeth  was  chiefly  struck  by  his  extraordinary  deference  lady  and  his  kind  intention  of  and  burying  his  parishioners  whenever  it  were  he  must  be  an  i  said  she.  i  cannot  make  there  is  something  very  pompous  in  his  and  what  he  mean  by  apologising  for  being  next  in  the  we  suppose  he  would  help  it  if  he  could  he  be  a  sensible  my  i  think  not.  i  have  great  hopes  of  finding  quite  the  reverse.  there  is  a  mixture  of  servility  importance  in  his  which  promises  well.  i  impatient  to  see  in  point  of  said  the  letter  does  not  defective.  the  idea  of  the  branch  perhaps  is  not  yet  i  think  it  is  well  to  catherine  and  neither  the  letter  nor  its  writer  were  any  degree  interesting.  it  was  next  to  impossible  that  cousin  should  come  in  a  scarlet  and  it  was  now  some  since  they  had  received  pleasure  from  the  society  of  a  man  in  other  colour.  as  for  their  mr.  s  letter  had  away  much  of  her  and  she  was  preparing  to  see  him  a  degree  of  composure  which  astonished  her  husband  and  mr.  collins  was  punctual  to  his  and  was  received  with  politeness  by  the  whole  family.  mr.  bennet  indeed  said  but  the  ladies  were  ready  enough  to  and  mr.  collins  neither  in  need  of  nor  inclined  to  be  himself.  he  was  a  looking  young  man  twenty.  his  air  was  grave  and  and  his  were  very  formal.  he  had  not  been  long  seated  before  complimented  mrs.  bennet  on  having  so  fine  a  family  of  said  he  had  heard  much  of  their  but  that  in  this  fame  had  fallen  short  of  the  truth;  and  that  he  did  doubt  her  seeing  them  all  in  due  time  disposed  of  in  this  gallantry  was  not  much  to  the  taste  of  some  of  his  but  mrs.  who  quarreled  with  no  answered  you  are  very  i  am  sure;  and  i  wish  with  all  my  heart  may  prove  for  else  they  will  be  destitute  enough.  things  settled  so  you  to  the  entail  of  this  ah!  i  do  indeed.  it  is  a  grievous  affair  to  my  poor  you  must  confess.  not  that  i  mean  to  find  fault  with  such  things  i  know  are  all  chance  in  this  world.  there  is  knowing  how  estates  will  go  when  once  they  come  to  be  i  am  very  of  the  hardship  to  my  fair  and  could  say  much  on  the  but  that  i  am  cautious  appearing  forward  and  precipitate.  but  i  can  assure  the  ladies  that  i  come  prepared  to  admire  them.  at  present  i  will  say  more;  when  we  are  better  he  was  interrupted  by  a  summons  to  dinner;  and  the  girls  on  each  other.  they  were  not  the  only  objects  of  mr.  admiration.  the  the  and  all  its  were  examined  and  praised;  and  his  commendation  of  would  have  touched  mrs.  s  but  for  the  supposition  of  his  viewing  it  all  as  his  own  future  property.  dinner  too  in  its  turn  was  highly  admired;  and  he  begged  to  to  which  of  his  fair  cousins  the  excellency  of  its  cooking  owing.  but  he  was  set  right  there  by  mrs.  who  assured  with  some  asperity  that  they  were  very  well  able  to  keep  a  and  that  her  daughters  had  nothing  to  do  in  the  kitchen.  begged  pardon  for  having  displeased  her.  in  a  softened  tone  declared  herself  not  at  all  offended;  but  he  continued  apologise  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  chapter  during  mr.  bennet  scarcely  spoke  at  all;  but  when  servants  were  he  thought  it  time  to  have  conversation  with  his  and  therefore  started  a  subject  which  he  expected  him  to  by  observing  that  he  seemed  fortunate  in  his  patroness.  lady  catherine  de  s  to  his  and  consideration  for  his  appeared  remarkable.  mr.  bennet  could  not  have  chosen  better.  mr.  was  eloquent  in  her  praise.  the  subject  elevated  him  to  more  usual  solemnity  of  and  with  a  most  important  aspect  protested  that  he  had  never  in  his  life  witnessed  such  in  a  person  of  such  affability  and  as  he  himself  experienced  from  lady  catherine.  she  had  been  pleased  to  approve  of  both  of  the  discourses  which  he  had  had  the  honour  of  preaching  before  her.  she  had  also  asked  twice  to  dine  at  and  had  sent  for  him  only  the  to  make  up  her  pool  of  quadrille  in  the  evening.  catherine  was  reckoned  proud  by  many  people  he  but  never  seen  anything  but  affability  in  her.  she  had  always  to  him  as  she  would  to  any  other  gentleman;  she  made  not  smallest  objection  to  his  joining  in  the  society  of  neighbourhood  nor  to  his  leaving  the  parish  occasionally  for  week  or  to  visit  his  relations.  she  had  even  condescended  advise  him  to  marry  as  soon  as  he  provided  he  chose  discretion;  and  had  once  paid  him  a  visit  in  his  where  she  had  perfectly  approved  all  the  he  had  been  and  had  even  vouchsafed  to  suggest  some  shelves  in  the  closet  up  that  is  all  very  proper  and  i  am  said  mrs.  and  i  dare  say  she  is  a  very  agreeable  woman.  it  is  a  pity  great  ladies  in  general  are  not  more  like  her.  does  she  live  the  garden  in  which  stands  my  humble  abode  is  separated  only  a  lane  from  rosings  her  s  i  think  you  said  she  was  a  sir?  has  she  any  she  has  only  one  the  heiress  of  and  of  extensive  said  mrs.  shaking  her  then  she  is  better  than  many  girls.  and  what  sort  of  young  lady  is  she?  is  she  is  a  most  charming  young  lady  indeed.  lady  catherine  says  in  point  of  true  miss  de  bourgh  is  superior  to  the  handsomest  of  her  because  there  is  that  her  features  which  marks  the  young  lady  of  distinguished  she  is  unfortunately  of  a  sickly  which  prevented  her  from  making  that  progress  in  many  which  she  could  not  have  otherwise  failed  as  i  am  informed  the  lady  who  superintended  her  and  who  still  with  them.  but  she  is  perfectly  and  often  condescends  drive  by  my  humble  abode  in  her  little  phaeton  and  has  she  been  presented?  i  do  not  remember  her  name  among  ladies  at  her  indifferent  state  of  health  unhappily  prevents  her  being  town;  and  by  that  as  i  told  lady  catherine  one  deprived  the  british  court  of  its  brightest  ornament.  ladyship  seemed  pleased  with  the  idea;  and  you  may  imagine  that  am  happy  on  every  occasion  to  offer  those  little  compliments  which  are  always  acceptable  to  ladies.  i  have  than  once  observed  to  lady  that  her  charming  seemed  born  to  be  a  and  that  the  most  elevated  instead  of  giving  her  would  be  adorned  by  her.  are  the  kind  of  little  things  which  please  her  and  is  a  sort  of  attention  which  i  conceive  myself  peculiarly  to  you  judge  very  said  mr.  and  it  is  happy  you  that  you  possess  the  talent  of  flattering  with  delicacy.  i  ask  whether  these  pleasing  attentions  proceed  from  the  of  the  or  are  the  result  of  previous  they  arise  chiefly  from  what  is  passing  at  the  and  i  sometimes  amuse  myself  with  suggesting  and  arranging  little  elegant  compliments  as  may  be  adapted  to  i  always  wish  to  give  them  as  unstudied  an  air  mr.  s  expectations  were  fully  answered.  his  cousin  was  absurd  as  he  had  and  he  listened  to  him  with  the  maintaining  at  the  same  time  the  most  composure  of  except  in  an  occasional  glance  requiring  no  partner  in  his  by  the  dose  had  been  and  mr.  was  glad  to  take  his  guest  into  the  room  tea  was  glad  to  invite  him  to  read  aloud  to  the  ladies.  collins  readily  and  a  book  was  produced;  beholding  it  (for  everything  announced  it  to  be  from  circulating  he  started  and  begging  protested  that  he  never  read  novels.  kitty  stared  at  lydia  exclaimed.  other  books  were  and  after  deliberation  he  chose  s  sermons.  lydia  gaped  as  he  the  and  before  he  with  very  monotonous  read  three  she  interrupted  him  do  you  that  my  uncle  phillips  talks  of  turning  richard;  and  if  he  colonel  forster  will  hire  him.  my  told  me  so  herself  on  saturday.  i  shall  walk  to  meryton  to  hear  more  about  and  to  ask  when  mr.  denny  comes  back  lydia  was  bid  by  her  two  eldest  sisters  to  hold  her  tongue;  mr.  much  laid  aside  his  and  i  have  often  observed  how  little  young  ladies  are  interested  books  of  a  serious  though  written  solely  for  benefit.  it  amazes  i  confess;  there  can  nothing  so  advantageous  to  them  as  instruction.  but  i  will  longer  importune  my  young  then  turning  to  mr.  he  offered  himself  as  his  at  backgammon.  mr.  bennet  accepted  the  observing  he  acted  very  wisely  in  leaving  the  girls  to  their  own  amusements.  mrs.  bennet  and  her  daughters  apologised  most  for  s  and  promised  that  it  should  not  if  he  would  resume  his  book;  but  mr.  assuring  them  that  he  bore  his  young  cousin  no  should  never  resent  her  behaviour  as  any  seated  at  another  table  with  mr.  and  prepared  for  chapter  mr.  collins  was  not  a  sensible  and  the  deficiency  of  had  been  but  little  assisted  by  education  or  society;  greatest  part  of  his  life  having  been  spent  under  the  guidance  an  illiterate  and  miserly  father;  and  though  he  belonged  to  of  the  he  had  merely  kept  the  necessary  without  forming  at  it  any  useful  acquaintance.  the  subjection  which  his  father  had  brought  him  up  had  given  him  great  humility  of  manner;  but  it  was  now  a  good  deal  by  the  conceit  of  a  weak  living  in  and  consequential  feelings  of  early  and  unexpected  prosperity.  fortunate  chance  had  recommended  him  to  lady  catherine  de  when  the  living  of  hunsford  was  vacant;  and  the  respect  which  felt  for  her  high  and  his  veneration  for  her  as  mingling  with  a  very  good  opinion  of  of  authority  as  a  and  his  right  as  a  made  altogether  a  mixture  of  pride  and  and  having  now  a  good  house  and  a  very  sufficient  he  to  marry;  and  in  seeking  a  reconciliation  with  the  family  he  had  a  wife  in  as  he  meant  to  choose  one  of  if  he  found  them  as  handsome  and  amiable  as  they  represented  by  common  report.  this  was  his  plan  of  for  inheriting  their  s  estate;  and  he  thought  an  excellent  full  of  eligibility  and  excessively  generous  and  disinterested  on  his  own  his  plan  did  not  vary  on  seeing  them.  miss  s  lovely  confirmed  his  and  established  all  his  strictest  notions  what  was  due  to  seniority;  and  for  the  first  evening  his  settled  choice.  the  next  made  alteration;  for  in  a  quarter  of  an  s  with  bennet  before  a  conversation  beginning  with  and  leading  naturally  to  the  avowal  of  that  a  mistress  might  be  found  for  it  at  produced  from  amid  very  complaisant  smiles  and  a  caution  against  the  very  jane  he  had  fixed  as  to  her  she  could  not  take  upon  her  she  could  not  positively  but  she  did  not  of  prepossession;  her  she  must  just  felt  it  incumbent  on  her  to  was  likely  to  be  very  mr.  collins  had  only  to  change  from  jane  to  and  it  soon  done  while  mrs.  bennet  was  stirring  the  equally  next  to  jane  in  birth  and  her  of  mrs.  bennet  treasured  up  the  and  trusted  that  she  soon  have  two  daughters  married;  and  the  man  whom  she  could  bear  to  speak  of  the  day  before  was  now  high  in  her  good  s  intention  of  walking  to  meryton  was  not  forgotten;  sister  except  mary  agreed  to  go  with  her;  and  mr.  collins  was  attend  at  the  request  of  mr.  who  was  most  to  get  rid  of  and  have  his  library  to  himself;  for  mr.  collins  had  followed  him  after  breakfast;  and  there  he  nominally  engaged  with  one  of  the  largest  folios  in  but  really  talking  to  mr.  with  of  his  house  and  garden  at  hunsford.  such  discomposed  mr.  bennet  exceedingly.  in  his  library  he  had  always  sure  of  leisure  and  tranquillity;  and  though  he  told  to  meet  with  folly  and  conceit  in  every  room  of  the  he  was  used  to  be  free  from  them  there;  was  most  prompt  in  inviting  mr.  collins  join  his  daughters  in  their  walk;  and  mr.  being  in  much  better  fitted  for  a  walker  than  a  was  pleased  to  close  his  large  and  in  pompous  nothings  on  his  and  civil  assents  on  that  of  their  time  passed  till  they  entered  meryton.  attention  of  the  younger  ones  was  then  no  longer  to  be  gained  .  their  eyes  were  immediately  wandering  up  in  the  street  quest  of  the  and  nothing  less  than  a  very  smart  or  a  really  new  muslin  in  a  shop  could  but  the  attention  of  every  lady  was  soon  caught  by  a  young  whom  they  had  never  seen  of  most  walking  with  another  officer  on  the  other  side  of  way.  the  officer  was  the  very  mr.  denny  concerning  whose  from  london  lydia  came  to  and  he  bowed  as  they  all  were  struck  with  the  s  all  wondered  who  could  be;  and  kitty  and  determined  if  possible  to  led  the  way  across  the  under  pretense  of  something  in  an  opposite  and  fortunately  had  just  the  pavement  when  the  two  turning  had  the  same  spot.  mr.  denny  addressed  them  and  permission  to  introduce  his  mr.  who  had  with  him  the  day  before  from  and  he  was  happy  to  say  accepted  a  commission  in  their  corps.  this  was  exactly  as  should  be;  for  the  young  man  wanted  only  regimentals  to  make  completely  charming.  his  appearance  was  greatly  in  his  favour;  had  all  the  best  part  of  a  fine  a  and  very  pleasing  address.  the  introduction  was  up  on  his  side  by  a  happy  readiness  of  a  at  the  same  time  perfectly  correct  and  unassuming;  and  the  party  were  still  standing  and  talking  together  very  when  the  sound  of  horses  drew  their  and  darcy  and  were  seen  riding  down  the  street.  on  distinguishing  the  ladies  the  the  two  gentlemen  came  directly  towards  began  the  usual  civilities.  bingley  was  the  principal  and  miss  bennet  the  principal  object.  he  was  he  his  way  to  longbourn  on  purpose  to  enquire  after  her.  mr.  corroborated  it  with  a  and  was  beginning  to  determine  not  fix  his  eyes  on  when  they  were  suddenly  arrested  the  sight  of  the  and  elizabeth  happening  to  see  countenance  of  both  as  they  looked  at  each  was  astonishment  at  the  effect  of  the  meeting.  both  changed  one  looked  the  other  red.  mr.  after  a  touched  his  a  salutation  which  mr.  darcy  deigned  to  return.  what  could  be  the  meaning  of  it?  it  impossible  to  imagine;  it  was  impossible  not  to  long  to  in  another  mr.  but  without  seeming  to  noticed  what  took  leave  and  rode  on  with  his  mr.  denny  and  mr.  wickham  walked  with  the  young  ladies  to  door  of  mr.  s  and  then  made  their  in  of  miss  s  pressing  entreaties  that  they  should  come  even  in  spite  of  mrs.  s  throwing  up  the  parlour  and  loudly  seconding  the  mrs.  phillips  was  always  glad  to  see  her  nieces;  and  the  from  their  recent  were  particularly  she  was  eagerly  expressing  her  surprise  at  their  sudden  as  their  own  carriage  had  not  fetched  should  have  known  nothing  if  she  had  not  happened  to  mr.  s  boy  in  the  who  had  told  her  that  were  not  to  send  any  more  draughts  to  netherfield  because  miss  bennets  were  come  when  her  civility  was  towards  mr.  collins  by  s  introduction  of  him.  she  him  with  her  very  best  which  he  returned  with  as  apologising  for  his  without  any  acquaintance  with  which  he  could  not  help  might  be  justified  by  his  relationship  to  young  ladies  who  introduced  him  to  her  notice.  mrs.  phillips  quite  awed  by  such  an  excess  of  good  breeding;  but  contemplation  of  one  stranger  was  soon  put  to  an  end  exclamations  and  enquiries  about  the  other;  of  could  only  tell  her  nieces  what  they  already  that  mr.  had  brought  him  from  and  that  he  was  to  have  s  commission  in  the  shire.  she  had  been  watching  the  last  she  as  he  walked  up  and  down  the  had  mr.  wickham  kitty  and  lydia  would  certainly  continued  the  but  unluckily  no  one  passed  windows  except  a  few  of  the  in  comparison  with  were  become  disagreeable  some  them  were  to  dine  with  the  phillipses  the  next  and  aunt  promised  to  make  her  husband  call  on  mr.  and  him  an  invitation  if  the  family  from  longbourn  would  in  the  evening.  this  was  agreed  and  mrs.  phillips  that  they  would  have  a  nice  comfortable  noisy  game  of  and  a  little  bit  of  hot  supper  afterwards.  the  of  such  delights  was  very  and  they  parted  in  good  spirits.  mr.  collins  repeated  his  apologies  in  quitting  and  was  assured  with  unwearying  civility  that  they  perfectly  as  they  walked  elizabeth  related  to  jane  what  she  had  pass  between  the  two  gentlemen;  but  though  jane  would  defended  either  or  had  they  appeared  to  be  in  the  she  could  no  more  explain  such  behaviour  than  her  mr.  collins  on  his  return  highly  gratified  mrs.  bennet  admiring  mrs.  s  manners  and  politeness.  he  except  lady  catherine  and  her  he  had  never  seen  more  elegant  woman;  for  she  had  not  only  received  him  with  utmost  but  even  pointedly  included  him  in  invitation  for  the  next  although  utterly  unknown  to  before.  he  might  be  attributed  to  connection  with  but  yet  he  had  never  met  with  so  attention  in  the  whole  course  of  his  chapter  as  no  objection  was  made  to  the  young  s  engagement  their  and  all  mr.  s  scruples  of  leaving  mr.  mrs.  bennet  for  a  single  evening  during  his  visit  were  steadily  the  coach  conveyed  him  and  his  five  cousins  a  suitable  hour  to  meryton;  and  the  girls  had  the  pleasure  as  they  entered  the  that  mr.  wickham  accepted  their  s  and  was  then  in  the  when  this  information  was  and  they  had  all  taken  mr.  collins  was  at  leisure  to  look  around  him  and  and  he  was  so  much  struck  with  the  size  and  furniture  of  that  he  declared  he  might  almost  have  supposed  in  the  small  summer  breakfast  parlour  at  rosings;  a  that  did  not  at  first  convey  much  gratification;  but  when  phillips  understood  from  him  what  rosings  and  who  was  when  she  had  listened  to  the  description  of  only  of  lady  s  and  found  that  piece  alone  had  cost  eight  hundred  she  felt  the  force  of  the  and  would  hardly  have  resented  comparison  with  the  s  in  describing  to  her  all  the  grandeur  of  lady  catherine  and  with  occasional  digressions  in  praise  of  his  own  and  the  improvements  it  was  he  was  employed  until  the  gentlemen  joined  them;  and  he  found  in  phillips  a  very  attentive  whose  opinion  of  consequence  increased  with  what  she  and  who  was  to  retail  it  all  among  her  neighbours  as  soon  as  she  could.  the  who  could  not  listen  to  their  and  who  nothing  to  do  but  to  wish  for  an  and  examine  own  indifferent  imitations  of  china  on  the  interval  of  waiting  appeared  very  long.  it  was  over  at  however.  the  gentlemen  did  and  when  mr.  wickham  into  the  elizabeth  felt  that  she  had  neither  been  him  nor  thinking  of  him  with  the  smallest  of  unreasonable  admiration.  the  officers  of  the  shire  were  general  a  very  gentlemanlike  and  the  best  them  were  of  the  present  party;  but  mr.  wickham  was  as  far  them  all  in  and  as  superior  to  the  stuffy  uncle  port  who  followed  them  into  the  mr.  wickham  was  the  happy  man  towards  whom  almost  every  eye  was  and  elizabeth  was  the  happy  woman  by  whom  finally  seated  himself;  and  the  agreeable  manner  in  which  immediately  fell  into  though  it  was  only  on  being  a  wet  made  her  feel  that  the  most  threadbare  topic  might  be  rendered  interesting  by  the  of  the  with  such  rivals  for  the  notice  of  the  fair  as  mr.  wickham  the  mr.  collins  seemed  to  sink  into  insignificance;  the  young  ladies  he  certainly  was  nothing;  but  he  had  still  intervals  a  kind  listener  in  mrs.  and  was  by  most  abundantly  supplied  with  coffee  and  when  the  tables  were  he  had  the  opportunity  obliging  her  in  by  sitting  down  to  i  know  little  of  the  game  at  said  but  i  shall  glad  to  improve  for  in  my  situation  in  phillips  was  very  glad  for  his  but  could  not  wait  his  mr.  wickham  did  not  play  at  and  with  ready  delight  was  received  at  the  other  table  between  elizabeth  and  lydia.  at  there  seemed  danger  of  s  engrossing  him  for  was  a  most  determined  talker;  but  being  likewise  extremely  of  lottery  she  soon  grew  too  much  interested  in  too  eager  in  making  bets  and  exclaiming  after  prizes  have  attention  for  anyone  in  particular.  allowing  for  the  demands  of  the  mr.  wickham  was  therefore  at  leisure  to  to  and  she  was  very  willing  to  hear  though  she  chiefly  wished  to  hear  she  could  not  hope  to  be  history  of  his  acquaintance  with  mr.  darcy.  she  dared  not  mention  that  gentleman.  her  was  relieved.  mr.  wickham  began  the  subject  himself.  he  enquired  far  netherfield  was  from  meryton;  after  receiving  asked  in  a  hesitating  manner  how  long  mr.  darcy  had  staying  about  a  said  elizabeth;  and  unwilling  to  let  subject  he  is  a  man  of  very  large  property  i  replied  mr.  wickham;  his  estate  there  is  a  noble  one.  clear  ten  thousand  per  annum.  you  could  not  have  met  with  person  more  capable  of  giving  you  certain  information  on  head  than  for  i  have  been  connected  with  his  family  in  particular  manner  from  my  elizabeth  could  not  but  look  you  may  well  be  miss  at  such  an  after  as  you  probably  the  very  cold  manner  of  meeting  yesterday.  are  you  much  acquainted  with  mr.  as  much  as  i  ever  wish  to  cried  elizabeth  very  warmly.  have  spent  four  days  in  the  same  house  with  and  i  think  very  i  have  no  right  to  give  said  as  to  being  agreeable  or  otherwise.  i  am  not  qualified  to  form  one.  have  known  him  too  long  and  too  well  to  be  a  fair  judge.  it  impossible  for  to  be  impartial.  but  i  believe  your  of  him  would  in  general  and  perhaps  you  would  express  it  quite  so  strongly  anywhere  else.  here  you  are  in  own  upon  my  i  say  no  more  than  i  might  say  in  any  in  the  except  netherfield.  he  is  not  at  all  in  hertfordshire.  everybody  is  disgusted  with  his  pride.  you  not  find  him  more  favourably  spoken  of  by  i  cannot  pretend  to  be  said  after  a  that  he  or  that  any  man  should  not  be  beyond  their  deserts;  but  with  i  believe  it  does  not  happen.  the  world  is  blinded  by  his  fortune  and  frightened  by  his  high  and  imposing  and  sees  him  only  he  chooses  to  be  i  should  take  even  on  slight  to  be  tempered  wickham  only  shook  his  i  said  at  the  next  opportunity  of  whether  he  is  likely  to  be  in  this  country  much  i  do  not  at  all  know;  but  i  nothing  of  his  going  when  i  was  at  netherfield.  i  hope  your  plans  in  favour  of  shire  will  not  be  affected  by  his  being  in  the  oh!  it  is  not  for  to  be  driven  away  by  mr.  darcy.  wishes  to  avoid  seeing  he  must  go.  we  are  not  friendly  and  it  always  gives  me  pain  to  meet  but  have  no  reason  for  avoiding  but  what  i  might  before  all  the  a  sense  of  very  great  and  painful  regrets  at  his  being  what  he  is.  his  miss  the  late  mr.  was  one  of  the  best  men  that  ever  and  the  truest  friend  i  ever  had;  and  i  can  never  be  in  with  this  mr.  darcy  without  being  grieved  to  the  soul  by  thousand  tender  recollections.  his  behaviour  to  myself  has  scandalous;  but  i  verily  believe  i  could  forgive  him  anything  rather  than  his  disappointing  the  hopes  disgracing  the  memory  of  his  elizabeth  found  the  interest  of  the  subject  listened  with  all  her  heart;  but  the  delicacy  of  it  further  mr.  wickham  began  to  speak  on  more  general  the  appearing  highly  pleased  with  that  he  had  yet  and  speaking  of  the  latter  with  gentle  very  intelligible  it  was  the  prospect  of  constant  and  good  which  was  my  chief  inducement  to  enter  the  shire.  knew  it  to  be  a  most  agreeable  and  my  denny  tempted  me  further  by  his  account  of  their  and  the  very  great  attentions  and  acquaintances  meryton  had  procured  them.  i  necessary  to  me.  i  have  been  a  disappointed  and  my  will  not  bear  solitude.  i  have  employment  and  society.  military  life  is  not  what  i  was  intended  but  have  now  made  it  eligible.  the  church  to  have  been  i  was  brought  up  for  the  and  i  should  at  time  have  been  in  possession  of  a  most  valuable  had  pleased  the  gentleman  we  were  speaking  of  just  the  late  mr.  darcy  bequeathed  me  the  next  presentation  the  best  living  in  his  gift.  he  was  my  and  attached  to  me.  i  cannot  do  justice  to  his  kindness.  he  meant  provide  for  me  and  thought  he  had  done  it;  but  when  living  it  was  given  good  cried  elizabeth;  but  how  could  be?  could  his  will  be  disregarded?  why  did  you  not  seek  there  was  just  such  an  informality  in  the  terms  of  the  as  to  give  me  no  hope  from  law.  a  man  of  honour  could  not  doubted  the  but  mr.  darcy  chose  to  doubt  or  treat  it  as  a  merely  conditional  and  to  that  i  had  forfeited  all  claim  to  it  by  in  short  anything  or  nothing.  certain  it  that  living  became  vacant  two  years  exactly  as  i  was  of  an  age  hold  and  that  it  was  given  to  another  man;  and  no  certain  is  that  i  cannot  accuse  myself  of  having  really  anything  to  deserve  to  lose  it.  i  have  a  unguarded  and  i  may  have  spoken  my  opinion  and  freely.  i  can  recall  nothing  worse.  but  the  fact  that  we  very  different  sort  of  and  that  he  hates  this  is  quite  shocking!  he  deserves  to  be  publicly  some  time  or  other  he  but  it  shall  not  be  by  till  i  can  forget  his  i  can  never  defy  or  expose  elizabeth  honoured  him  for  such  and  thought  handsomer  than  ever  as  he  expressed  but  said  after  a  can  have  been  his  what  can  have  induced  him  to  behave  so  a  determined  dislike  of  a  dislike  which  i  but  attribute  in  some  measure  to  jealousy.  had  the  late  mr.  liked  me  his  son  might  have  borne  with  me  better;  but  s  uncommon  attachment  to  me  irritated  i  early  in  life.  he  had  not  a  temper  to  bear  the  sort  competition  in  which  we  the  sort  of  preference  which  often  given  i  had  not  thought  mr.  darcy  so  bad  as  though  i  have  liked  him.  i  had  not  thought  so  very  ill  of  him.  i  had  him  to  be  despising  his  creatures  in  but  did  suspect  him  of  descending  to  such  malicious  such  inhumanity  as  after  a  few  she  i  remember  his  boasting  one  at  of  implacability  of  his  of  his  having  an  temper.  his  disposition  must  be  i  will  not  trust  myself  on  the  replied  wickham;  can  hardly  be  just  to  elizabeth  was  again  deep  in  and  after  a  time  to  treat  in  such  a  manner  the  the  the  of  his  she  could  have  a  young  whose  very  countenance  may  vouch  for  your  but  she  contented  herself  and  who  probably  been  his  companion  from  connected  as  i  think  you  in  the  closest  we  were  born  in  the  same  within  the  same  park;  greatest  part  of  our  youth  was  passed  together;  inmates  of  same  sharing  the  same  objects  of  the  parental  care.  father  began  life  in  the  profession  your  mr.  appears  to  do  so  much  credit  but  gave  up  everything  to  be  of  use  to  the  late  mr.  darcy  and  all  his  time  to  the  care  of  the  pemberley  property.  he  was  highly  esteemed  by  mr.  a  most  friend.  mr.  darcy  often  acknowledged  himself  to  be  under  greatest  obligations  to  my  s  active  immediately  before  my  s  mr.  darcy  gave  him  voluntary  promise  of  providing  for  i  am  convinced  that  felt  it  to  be  as  much  a  debt  of  gratitude  to  as  of  affection  to  how  cried  elizabeth.  how  abominable!  i  wonder  the  very  pride  of  this  mr.  darcy  has  not  made  him  just  to  you!  from  no  better  that  he  should  not  have  been  too  proud  be  for  dishonesty  i  must  call  it  replied  for  almost  all  his  may  be  traced  to  pride;  and  pride  had  often  been  his  best  it  has  connected  him  nearer  with  virtue  than  with  any  feeling.  but  we  are  none  of  us  and  in  his  to  me  there  were  stronger  impulses  even  than  can  such  abominable  pride  as  his  have  ever  done  him  yes.  it  has  often  led  him  to  be  liberal  and  to  his  money  to  display  to  assist  his  and  relieve  the  poor.  family  and  for  he  very  proud  of  what  his  father  have  done  this.  not  to  to  disgrace  his  to  degenerate  from  the  popular  or  lose  the  influence  of  the  pemberley  is  a  motive.  he  has  also  with  brotherly  makes  him  a  very  kind  and  careful  of  his  and  you  will  hear  him  generally  cried  up  as  most  attentive  and  best  of  what  sort  of  girl  is  miss  he  shook  his  head.  i  wish  i  could  call  her  amiable.  it  gives  pain  to  speak  ill  of  a  darcy.  but  she  is  too  much  like  very  proud.  as  a  she  was  affectionate  and  extremely  fond  of  me;  and  i  have  devoted  hours  hours  to  her  amusement.  but  she  is  nothing  to  me  now.  she  is  handsome  about  fifteen  or  i  highly  accomplished.  since  her  s  her  home  has  where  a  lady  lives  with  and  superintends  after  many  pauses  and  many  trials  of  other  could  not  help  reverting  once  more  to  the  and  i  am  astonished  at  his  intimacy  with  mr.  bingley!  how  can  who  seems  good  humour  and  i  really  truly  be  in  friendship  with  such  a  man?  how  can  suit  each  other?  do  you  know  mr.  not  at  he  is  a  charming  man.  he  cannot  what  mr.  darcy  probably  not;  but  mr.  darcy  can  please  where  he  chooses.  he  not  want  abilities.  he  can  be  a  conversible  companion  if  thinks  it  worth  his  while.  among  those  who  are  at  all  his  in  he  is  a  very  different  man  from  what  he  is  to  less  prosperous.  his  pride  never  deserts  him;  but  with  the  he  is  perhaps  allowing  something  for  fortune  and  the  whist  party  soon  afterwards  breaking  the  players  round  the  other  table  and  mr.  collins  took  his  station  his  cousin  elizabeth  and  mrs.  phillips.  the  usual  enquiries  as  his  success  were  made  by  the  latter.  it  had  not  been  very  he  had  lost  every  point;  but  when  mrs.  phillips  began  to  her  concern  he  assured  her  with  much  earnest  that  it  was  not  of  the  least  that  he  considered  money  as  a  mere  and  begged  that  she  would  not  herself  i  know  very  said  that  when  persons  sit  to  a  they  must  take  their  chances  of  these  and  happily  i  am  not  in  such  circumstances  as  to  make  shillings  any  object.  there  are  undoubtedly  many  who  could  say  the  but  thanks  to  lady  catherine  de  i  removed  far  beyond  the  necessity  of  regarding  little  mr.  s  attention  was  caught;  and  after  observing  collins  for  a  few  he  asked  elizabeth  in  a  low  whether  her  relation  was  very  intimately  acquainted  with  family  of  de  lady  catherine  de  she  has  very  lately  him  a  living.  i  hardly  know  how  mr.  collins  was  first  to  her  but  he  certainly  has  not  known  her  you  know  of  course  that  lady  catherine  de  bourgh  and  lady  darcy  were  sisters;  consequently  that  she  is  aunt  to  the  mr.  i  did  not.  i  knew  nothing  at  all  of  lady  connections.  i  never  heard  of  her  existence  till  the  day  her  miss  de  will  have  a  very  large  and  it  is  believed  that  she  and  her  cousin  will  unite  the  this  information  made  elizabeth  as  she  thought  of  miss  bingley.  vain  indeed  must  be  all  her  vain  useless  her  affection  for  his  sister  and  her  praise  of  if  he  were  already  destined  for  mr.  said  speaks  highly  both  of  lady  and  her  daughter;  but  from  some  particulars  that  he  has  of  her  i  suspect  his  gratitude  misleads  and  in  spite  of  her  being  his  she  is  an  conceited  i  believe  her  to  be  both  in  a  great  replied  wickham;  have  not  seen  her  for  many  but  i  very  well  remember  that  never  liked  and  that  her  manners  were  dictatorial  insolent.  she  has  the  reputation  of  being  remarkably  sensible  clever;  but  i  rather  believe  she  derives  part  of  her  from  her  rank  and  part  from  her  authoritative  and  the  rest  from  the  pride  of  her  who  chooses  everyone  connected  with  him  should  have  an  understanding  of  first  elizabeth  allowed  that  he  had  given  a  very  rational  account  and  they  continued  talking  with  mutual  till  supper  put  an  end  to  and  gave  the  rest  of  the  their  share  of  mr.  s  attentions.  there  could  be  conversation  in  the  noise  of  mrs.  s  supper  his  manners  recommended  him  to  everybody.  whatever  he  said  well;  and  whatever  he  done  gracefully.  elizabeth  away  with  her  head  full  of  him.  she  could  think  of  nothing  but  mr.  and  of  what  he  had  told  all  the  way  home;  there  was  not  time  for  her  even  to  mention  his  name  as  they  for  neither  lydia  nor  mr.  collins  were  once  silent.  lydia  incessantly  of  lottery  of  the  fish  she  had  lost  and  fish  she  had  won;  and  mr.  collins  in  describing  the  civility  mr.  and  mrs.  protesting  that  he  did  not  in  the  regard  his  losses  at  enumerating  all  the  dishes  at  and  repeatedly  fearing  that  he  crowded  his  had  more  say  than  he  could  well  manage  before  the  carriage  stopped  longbourn  chapter  elizabeth  related  to  jane  the  next  day  what  had  passed  mr.  wickham  and  herself.  jane  listened  with  astonishment  concern;  she  knew  not  how  to  believe  that  mr.  darcy  could  be  unworthy  of  mr.  s  regard;  and  it  was  not  in  nature  to  question  the  veracity  of  a  young  man  of  such  appearance  as  wickham.  the  possibility  of  his  having  endured  was  enough  to  interest  all  her  tender  feelings;  nothing  remained  therefore  to  be  but  to  think  well  of  to  defend  the  conduct  of  and  throw  into  the  of  accident  or  mistake  whatever  could  not  be  otherwise  they  have  said  been  i  dare  in  way  or  of  which  we  can  form  no  idea.  interested  have  perhaps  misrepresented  each  to  the  other.  it  in  impossible  for  us  to  conjecture  the  causes  or  circumstances  may  have  alienated  without  actual  blame  on  either  very  indeed;  and  my  dear  what  have  you  got  say  on  behalf  of  the  interested  people  who  have  probably  concerned  in  the  business?  do  clear  or  we  shall  obliged  to  think  ill  of  laugh  as  much  as  you  but  you  will  not  laugh  me  out  of  opinion.  my  dearest  do  but  consider  in  what  a  light  it  places  mr.  to  be  treating  his  s  in  such  a  one  whom  his  father  had  promised  to  for.  it  is  impossible.  no  man  of  common  no  man  who  any  value  for  his  could  be  capable  of  it.  can  his  intimate  friends  be  so  excessively  deceived  in  him?  oh!  i  can  much  more  easily  believe  mr.  s  being  imposed  than  that  mr.  wickham  should  invent  such  a  history  of  himself  he  gave  me  last  night;  everything  mentioned  ceremony.  if  it  be  not  let  mr.  darcy  contradict  it.  there  was  truth  in  his  it  is  difficult  it  is  distressing.  one  does  not  know  to  i  beg  your  pardon;  one  knows  exactly  what  to  but  jane  could  think  with  certainty  on  only  one  that  if  he  had  imposed  would  have  much  to  when  the  affair  became  the  two  young  ladies  were  summoned  from  the  where  conversation  by  the  arrival  of  the  very  persons  of  they  had  been  speaking;  mr.  bingley  and  his  sisters  came  to  their  personal  invitation  for  the  expected  ball  which  was  fixed  for  the  following  tuesday.  the  ladies  were  delighted  to  see  their  dear  friend  called  an  age  since  they  had  and  repeatedly  asked  what  she  had  doing  with  herself  since  their  separation.  to  the  rest  of  family  they  paid  little  attention;  avoiding  mrs.  bennet  as  as  saying  not  much  to  and  nothing  at  all  the  others.  they  were  soon  gone  rising  from  their  with  an  activity  which  took  their  brother  by  hurrying  off  as  if  eager  to  escape  from  mrs.  s  the  prospect  of  the  netherfield  ball  was  extremely  agreeable  every  female  of  the  family.  mrs.  bennet  chose  to  consider  it  given  in  compliment  to  her  eldest  and  was  flattered  by  receiving  the  invitation  from  mr.  bingley  instead  of  a  ceremonious  card.  jane  pictured  to  herself  a  evening  in  the  society  of  her  two  and  the  attentions  their  brother;  and  elizabeth  thought  with  pleasure  of  dancing  great  deal  with  mr.  and  of  seeing  a  confirmation  everything  in  mr.  s  look  and  behaviour.  the  anticipated  by  catherine  and  lydia  depended  less  on  any  or  any  particular  for  though  they  meant  to  dance  half  the  evening  with  mr.  was  by  no  means  the  only  partner  who  could  satisfy  and  ball  at  any  a  ball.  and  even  mary  could  assure  family  that  she  had  no  disinclination  for  while  i  can  have  my  mornings  to  said  it  i  think  it  is  no  sacrifice  to  join  occasionally  in  engagements.  society  has  claims  on  us  all;  and  i  profess  one  of  those  who  consider  intervals  of  recreation  and  as  desirable  for  s  spirits  were  so  high  on  this  that  she  did  not  often  speak  unnecessarily  to  mr.  she  not  help  asking  him  whether  he  intended  to  accept  mr.  and  if  he  whether  he  would  think  it  proper  join  in  the  s  amusement;  and  she  was  rather  surprised  find  that  he  entertained  no  scruple  whatever  on  that  was  very  far  from  dreading  a  rebuke  either  from  the  or  lady  catherine  de  by  venturing  to  i  am  by  no  means  of  the  i  assure  said  that  ball  of  this  given  by  a  young  man  of  respectable  can  have  any  evil  tendency;  and  i  am  so  from  objecting  to  dancing  that  i  shall  hope  to  honoured  with  the  hands  of  all  my  fair  cousins  in  the  course  the  evening;  and  i  take  this  opportunity  of  soliciting  miss  for  the  two  first  dances  a  which  i  trust  my  cousin  jane  will  attribute  to  the  right  and  not  to  any  disrespect  for  elizabeth  felt  herself  completely  taken  in.  she  had  proposed  being  engaged  by  mr.  wickham  for  those  very  dances;  to  have  mr.  collins  instead!  her  liveliness  had  never  been  timed.  there  was  no  help  for  however.  mr.  s  and  her  own  were  perforce  delayed  a  little  and  s  proposal  accepted  with  as  good  a  grace  as  she  she  was  not  the  better  pleased  with  his  gallantry  from  the  it  suggested  of  something  more.  it  now  first  struck  was  selected  from  among  her  sisters  as  worthy  of  mistress  of  hunsford  and  of  assisting  to  form  quadrille  table  at  in  the  absence  of  more  visitors.  the  idea  soon  reached  to  as  she  his  increasing  civilities  toward  and  heard  his  attempt  at  a  compliment  on  her  wit  and  vivacity;  and  though  astonished  than  gratified  herself  by  this  effect  of  her  it  was  not  long  before  her  mother  gave  her  to  understand  that  probability  of  their  marriage  was  extremely  agreeable  to  did  not  choose  to  take  the  being  aware  that  a  serious  dispute  must  be  the  consequence  of  reply.  mr.  collins  might  never  make  the  and  till  he  it  was  useless  to  quarrel  about  if  there  had  not  been  a  netherfield  ball  to  prepare  for  and  the  younger  miss  bennets  would  have  been  in  a  very  state  at  this  for  from  the  day  of  the  to  day  of  the  there  was  such  a  succession  of  rain  as  their  walking  to  meryton  once.  no  no  no  could  be  sought  the  very  roses  for  netherfield  got  by  proxy.  even  elizabeth  might  have  found  some  trial  of  patience  in  weather  which  totally  suspended  the  improvement  her  acquaintance  with  mr.  wickham;  and  nothing  less  than  a  on  could  have  made  such  a  monday  endurable  to  kitty  and  chapter  till  elizabeth  entered  the  room  at  looked  in  vain  for  mr.  wickham  among  the  cluster  of  red  there  a  doubt  of  his  being  present  had  never  to  her.  the  certainty  of  meeting  him  had  not  been  checked  by  of  those  recollections  that  might  not  unreasonably  have  her.  she  had  dressed  with  more  than  usual  and  prepared  the  highest  spirits  for  the  conquest  of  all  that  unsubdued  of  his  trusting  that  it  was  not  more  than  be  won  in  the  course  of  the  evening.  but  in  an  instant  arose  dreadful  suspicion  of  his  being  purposely  omitted  for  mr.  pleasure  in  the  invitation  to  the  officers;  and  this  was  not  exactly  the  the  absolute  fact  of  his  was  pronounced  by  his  friend  to  whom  lydia  and  who  told  them  that  wickham  had  been  obliged  to  go  town  on  business  the  day  and  was  not  yet  with  a  significant  i  do  not  imagine  his  would  have  called  him  away  just  if  he  had  not  wanted  avoid  a  certain  gentleman  this  part  of  his  though  unheard  by  caught  by  as  it  assured  her  that  darcy  was  less  answerable  for  s  absence  than  if  her  first  had  been  every  feeling  of  displeasure  against  the  was  so  sharpened  by  immediate  that  she  hardly  reply  with  tolerable  civility  to  the  polite  which  he  directly  afterwards  approached  to  make.  patience  with  was  injury  to  wickham.  she  resolved  against  any  sort  of  conversation  with  and  away  with  a  degree  of  humour  which  she  could  not  surmount  even  in  speaking  to  mr.  whose  blind  provoked  but  elizabeth  was  not  formed  for  humour;  and  though  prospect  of  her  own  was  destroyed  for  the  it  could  dwell  long  on  her  spirits;  and  having  told  all  her  griefs  charlotte  whom  she  had  not  seen  for  a  she  was  able  to  make  a  voluntary  transition  to  the  oddities  of  and  to  point  him  out  to  her  particular  notice.  the  two  brought  a  return  of  distress;  they  dances  of  mortification.  mr.  awkward  and  apologising  instead  of  and  often  moving  wrong  being  aware  of  gave  her  all  the  shame  and  misery  which  disagreeable  partner  for  a  couple  of  dances  can  give.  the  of  her  release  from  him  was  she  danced  next  with  an  and  had  the  refreshment  talking  of  and  of  hearing  that  he  was  universally  when  those  dances  were  she  returned  to  charlotte  was  in  conversation  with  when  she  found  herself  addressed  by  mr.  darcy  who  took  her  so  much  by  surprise  in  application  for  her  without  knowing  what  she  accepted  him.  he  walked  away  again  and  she  was  to  fret  over  her  own  want  of  presence  of  mind;  charlotte  tried  console  i  dare  say  you  will  find  him  very  heaven  forbid!  would  be  the  greatest  misfortune  of  to  find  a  man  agreeable  whom  one  is  determined  to  hate!  do  wish  me  such  an  when  the  dancing  and  darcy  approached  claim  her  charlotte  could  not  help  cautioning  her  in  not  to  be  a  and  allow  her  fancy  for  to  make  her  appear  unpleasant  in  the  eyes  of  a  man  ten  times  consequence.  elizabeth  made  no  and  took  her  place  in  amazed  at  the  dignity  to  which  she  was  arrived  in  allowed  to  stand  opposite  to  mr.  and  reading  in  their  equal  amazement  in  beholding  it.  stood  for  some  time  without  speaking  a  word;  and  she  began  imagine  that  their  silence  was  to  last  through  the  two  and  at  first  was  resolved  not  to  break  it;  till  suddenly  that  it  would  be  the  greater  punishment  to  her  partner  to  him  to  she  made  some  slight  observation  on  the  dance.  and  was  again  silent.  after  a  pause  of  some  addressed  him  a  second  time  it  is  turn  to  something  mr.  darcy.  talked  about  the  and  ought  to  make  some  sort  of  remark  on  the  size  of  the  or  number  of  he  and  assured  her  that  whatever  she  wished  him  to  should  be  very  well.  that  reply  will  do  for  the  present.  perhaps  by  and  i  may  observe  that  private  balls  are  much  pleasanter  than  ones.  but  we  may  be  do  you  talk  by  while  you  are  sometimes.  one  must  speak  a  you  know.  it  would  look  to  be  entirely  silent  for  half  an  hour  together;  and  yet  for  advantage  of  conversation  ought  to  be  so  that  they  may  have  the  trouble  of  saying  as  little  as  are  you  consulting  your  own  feelings  in  the  present  or  you  imagine  that  you  are  gratifying  replied  elizabeth  archly;  for  i  have  always  seen  a  similarity  in  the  turn  of  our  minds.  we  are  each  of  an  taciturn  unwilling  to  unless  we  expect  to  something  that  will  amaze  the  whole  and  be  handed  down  posterity  with  all  the  of  a  this  is  no  very  striking  resemblance  of  your  own  i  said  he.  how  near  it  may  be  to  i  cannot  to  say.  think  it  a  faithful  portrait  i  must  not  decide  on  my  own  he  made  no  and  they  were  again  silent  till  they  had  down  the  when  he  asked  her  if  she  and  her  sisters  did  very  often  walk  to  meryton.  she  answered  in  the  unable  to  resist  the  when  you  met  us  the  other  we  had  just  been  forming  a  new  the  effect  was  immediate.  a  deeper  shade  of  his  but  he  said  not  a  and  blaming  herself  for  her  own  could  not  go  on.  at  darcy  and  in  a  constrained  manner  mr.  wickham  blessed  with  such  happy  manners  as  may  ensure  his  whether  he  may  be  equally  capable  of  less  he  has  been  so  unlucky  as  to  lose  elizabeth  with  and  in  a  manner  which  he  is  likely  suffer  from  all  his  darcy  made  no  and  seemed  desirous  of  changing  subject.  at  that  sir  william  lucas  appeared  close  meaning  to  pass  through  the  set  to  the  other  side  of  room;  but  on  perceiving  mr.  he  stopped  with  a  bow  superior  courtesy  to  compliment  him  on  his  dancing  and  i  have  been  most  highly  gratified  my  dear  sir.  such  superior  dancing  is  not  often  seen.  it  is  evident  that  you  to  the  first  circles.  allow  me  to  that  your  partner  does  not  disgrace  and  that  i  must  hope  to  have  pleasure  often  especially  when  a  certain  my  dear  eliza  (glancing  at  her  sister  and  bingley)  take  place.  what  congratulations  will  then  flow  in!  i  appeal  mr.  but  let  me  not  interrupt  sir.  you  will  not  me  for  detaining  you  from  the  bewitching  converse  of  that  whose  bright  eyes  are  also  upbraiding  the  latter  part  of  this  address  was  scarcely  heard  by  darcy;  sir  s  allusion  to  his  friend  seemed  to  strike  and  his  eyes  were  directed  with  a  very  expression  towards  bingley  and  who  were  dancing  recovering  he  turned  to  his  and  sir  s  interruption  has  made  me  forget  what  were  talking  i  do  not  think  we  were  speaking  at  all.  sir  william  could  have  interrupted  two  people  in  the  room  who  had  less  to  say  themselves.  we  have  tried  two  or  three  subjects  already  and  what  we  are  to  talk  of  next  i  cannot  what  think  you  of  said  oh!  no.  i  am  sure  we  never  read  the  or  not  with  same  i  am  sorry  you  think  so;  but  if  that  be  the  there  can  least  be  no  want  of  subject.  we  may  compare  our  i  cannot  talk  of  books  in  a  room;  my  head  is  always  of  something  the  always  occupies  you  in  such  does  with  a  look  of  she  without  knowing  what  she  her  thoughts  had  wandered  far  from  the  as  afterwards  appeared  by  her  suddenly  i  hearing  you  once  mr.  that  you  hardly  ever  that  your  resentment  once  created  was  unappeasable.  you  are  i  as  to  its  being  i  said  with  a  firm  and  never  allow  yourself  to  be  blinded  by  i  hope  it  is  particularly  incumbent  on  those  who  never  change  to  be  secure  of  judging  properly  at  may  i  ask  to  what  these  questions  merely  to  the  illustration  of  said  endeavouring  to  shake  off  her  gravity.  i  am  trying  to  make  and  what  is  your  she  shook  her  head.  i  do  not  get  on  at  all.  i  hear  different  accounts  of  you  as  puzzle  me  i  can  readily  answered  he  that  reports  vary  greatly  with  respect  to  me;  and  i  could  miss  that  you  were  not  to  sketch  my  character  at  the  present  as  there  is  reason  to  fear  that  the  performance  would  reflect  credit  on  but  if  i  do  not  take  your  likeness  i  may  never  have  i  would  by  no  means  suspend  any  pleasure  of  he  replied.  she  said  no  and  they  went  down  the  other  dance  parted  in  silence;  and  on  each  side  though  not  an  equal  for  in  s  breast  there  was  a  powerful  feeling  towards  which  soon  procured  her  directed  all  his  anger  against  they  had  not  long  when  miss  bingley  came  towards  and  with  an  expression  of  civil  disdain  accosted  miss  i  hear  you  are  quite  delighted  with  wickham!  your  sister  has  been  talking  to  me  about  and  me  a  thousand  questions;  and  i  find  that  the  young  man  forgot  to  tell  among  his  other  that  he  the  son  of  old  the  late  mr.  s  steward.  let  recommend  as  a  not  to  give  confidence  to  all  his  assertions;  for  as  to  mr.  s  using  it  is  perfectly  false;  on  the  he  has  been  remarkably  kind  to  though  george  wickham  has  mr.  darcy  in  a  most  infamous  manner.  i  do  not  know  but  i  know  very  well  that  mr.  darcy  is  not  in  least  to  that  he  cannot  bear  to  hear  george  and  that  though  my  brother  thought  that  he  could  well  avoid  including  him  in  his  invitation  to  the  was  excessively  glad  to  find  that  he  had  taken  himself  out  of  way.  his  coming  into  the  country  at  all  is  a  most  insolent  and  i  wonder  how  he  could  presume  to  do  it.  i  pity  miss  for  this  discovery  of  your  s  guilt;  considering  his  one  could  not  expect  his  guilt  and  his  descent  appear  by  your  account  to  be  said  elizabeth  angrily;  for  i  have  heard  you  accuse  of  nothing  worse  than  of  being  the  son  of  mr.  s  and  of  i  can  assure  he  informed  me  i  beg  your  replied  miss  turning  away  with  sneer.  excuse  my  it  was  kindly  insolent  said  elizabeth  to  herself.  you  are  mistaken  if  you  expect  to  influence  me  by  such  a  paltry  attack  this.  i  see  nothing  in  it  but  your  own  wilful  ignorance  and  malice  of  mr.  she  then  sought  her  eldest  who  undertaken  to  make  enquiries  on  the  same  subject  of  bingley.  met  her  with  a  smile  of  such  sweet  a  glow  of  happy  as  sufficiently  marked  how  well  she  satisfied  with  the  occurrences  of  the  evening.  instantly  read  her  and  at  that  moment  solicitude  resentment  against  his  and  everything  gave  way  before  the  hope  of  s  being  in  the  fairest  way  i  want  to  said  with  a  countenance  no  less  than  her  what  you  have  learnt  about  mr.  wickham.  perhaps  you  have  been  too  pleasantly  engaged  to  think  of  third  person;  in  which  case  you  may  be  sure  of  my  replied  i  have  not  forgotten  him;  but  i  have  satisfactory  to  tell  you.  mr.  bingley  does  not  know  the  whole  his  and  is  quite  ignorant  of  the  circumstances  have  principally  offended  mr.  darcy;  but  he  will  vouch  for  good  the  and  honour  of  his  and  perfectly  convinced  that  mr.  wickham  has  deserved  much  attention  from  mr.  darcy  than  he  has  received;  and  i  am  sorry  say  by  his  account  as  well  as  his  mr.  wickham  is  by  means  a  respectable  young  man.  i  am  afraid  he  has  been  and  has  deserved  to  lose  mr.  s  mr.  bingley  does  not  know  mr.  wickham  no;  he  never  saw  him  till  the  other  morning  at  this  account  then  is  what  he  has  received  from  mr.  darcy.  i  satisfied.  but  what  does  he  say  of  the  he  does  not  exactly  recollect  the  though  he  heard  them  from  mr.  darcy  more  than  but  he  believes  that  was  left  to  him  i  have  not  a  doubt  of  mr.  s  said  warmly;  but  you  must  excuse  my  not  being  convinced  by  only.  mr.  s  defense  of  his  friend  was  a  very  able  dare  say;  but  since  he  is  unacquainted  with  several  parts  of  and  has  learnt  the  rest  from  that  friend  i  venture  to  still  think  of  both  gentlemen  as  i  did  she  then  changed  the  discourse  to  one  more  gratifying  to  and  on  which  there  could  be  no  difference  of  sentiment.  listened  with  delight  to  the  though  modest  hopes  jane  entertained  of  mr.  s  and  said  all  in  power  to  heighten  her  confidence  in  it.  on  their  being  joined  mr.  bingley  elizabeth  withdrew  to  miss  lucas;  to  enquiry  after  the  pleasantness  of  her  last  partner  she  scarcely  before  mr.  collins  came  up  to  and  her  with  great  exultation  that  he  had  just  been  so  fortunate  to  make  a  most  important  i  have  found  said  by  a  singular  that  is  now  in  the  room  a  near  relation  of  my  patroness.  i  happened  overhear  the  gentleman  himself  mentioning  to  the  young  lady  does  the  honours  of  the  house  the  names  of  his  cousin  miss  and  of  her  mother  lady  catherine.  how  wonderfully  sort  of  things  occur!  who  would  have  thought  of  my  meeting  a  nephew  of  lady  catherine  de  bourgh  in  this  assembly!  am  most  thankful  that  the  discovery  is  made  in  time  for  me  to  my  respects  to  which  i  am  now  going  to  and  trust  he  excuse  my  not  having  done  it  before.  my  total  ignorance  of  connection  must  plead  my  you  are  not  going  to  introduce  yourself  to  mr.  indeed  i  am.  i  shall  entreat  his  pardon  for  not  having  done  earlier.  i  believe  him  to  be  lady  s  .  it  be  in  my  power  to  assure  him  that  her  ladyship  was  quite  yesterday  elizabeth  tried  hard  to  dissuade  him  from  such  a  him  that  mr.  darcy  would  consider  his  addressing  him  introduction  as  an  impertinent  rather  than  a  to  his  aunt;  that  it  was  not  in  the  least  necessary  there  be  any  notice  on  either  side;  and  that  if  it  it  must  to  mr.  the  superior  in  to  begin  acquaintance.  mr.  collins  listened  to  her  with  the  determined  of  following  his  own  when  she  ceased  replied  my  dear  miss  i  have  the  highest  opinion  in  the  in  your  excellent  judgement  in  all  matters  within  the  scope  your  understanding;  but  permit  me  to  that  there  must  be  wide  difference  between  the  established  forms  of  ceremony  the  and  those  which  regulate  the  clergy;  give  leave  to  observe  that  i  consider  the  clerical  office  as  equal  point  of  dignity  with  the  highest  rank  in  the  that  a  proper  humility  of  behaviour  is  at  the  same  maintained.  you  must  therefore  allow  me  to  follow  the  dictates  my  conscience  on  this  which  leads  me  to  perform  what  look  on  as  a  point  of  duty.  pardon  me  for  neglecting  to  profit  your  which  on  every  other  subject  shall  be  my  though  in  the  case  before  us  i  consider  myself  more  by  education  and  habitual  study  to  decide  on  what  is  right  than  young  lady  like  and  with  a  low  bow  he  left  her  attack  mr.  whose  reception  of  his  advances  she  and  whose  astonishment  at  being  so  addressed  was  evident.  her  cousin  prefaced  his  speech  with  a  solemn  bow  though  she  could  not  hear  a  word  of  she  felt  as  if  hearing  and  saw  in  the  motion  of  his  lips  the  words  and  lady  catherine  de  it  vexed  her  to  him  expose  himself  to  such  a  man.  mr.  darcy  was  eyeing  him  unrestrained  and  when  at  last  mr.  collins  allowed  time  to  replied  with  an  air  of  distant  civility.  was  not  discouraged  from  speaking  mr.  s  contempt  seemed  abundantly  increasing  with  the  of  his  second  and  at  the  end  of  it  he  only  made  him  slight  and  moved  another  way.  mr.  collins  then  returned  i  have  no  i  assure  said  to  be  with  my  reception.  mr.  darcy  seemed  much  pleased  with  attention.  he  answered  me  with  the  utmost  and  even  me  the  compliment  of  saying  that  he  was  so  well  convinced  of  s  discernment  as  to  be  certain  she  could  never  bestow  favour  unworthily.  it  was  really  a  very  handsome  thought.  the  i  am  much  pleased  with  as  elizabeth  had  no  longer  any  interest  of  her  own  to  turned  her  attention  almost  entirely  on  her  sister  and  bingley;  and  the  train  of  agreeable  reflections  which  observations  gave  birth  made  her  perhaps  almost  as  happy  jane.  she  saw  her  in  idea  settled  in  that  very  in  all  felicity  which  a  marriage  of  true  affection  could  bestow;  and  felt  under  such  of  endeavouring  even  like  s  two  sisters.  her  s  thoughts  she  plainly  were  bent  the  same  and  she  determined  not  to  venture  lest  she  might  hear  too  much.  when  they  sat  down  to  she  considered  it  a  most  unlucky  perverseness  placed  them  within  one  of  each  other;  and  deeply  was  she  vexed  find  that  her  mother  was  talking  to  that  one  person  (lady  and  of  nothing  else  but  her  expectation  that  would  soon  be  married  to  mr.  bingley.  it  was  an  and  mrs.  bennet  seemed  incapable  of  fatigue  enumerating  the  advantages  of  the  match.  his  being  such  charming  young  and  so  and  living  but  three  miles  were  the  first  points  of  gratulation;  and  then  it  such  a  comfort  to  think  how  fond  the  two  sisters  were  of  and  to  be  certain  that  they  must  desire  the  connection  as  much  she  could  do.  it  such  a  promising  thing  for  younger  as  s  marrying  so  greatly  must  throw  in  the  way  of  other  rich  men;  and  it  was  so  pleasant  her  time  of  life  to  be  able  to  consign  her  single  daughters  the  care  of  their  that  she  might  not  be  obliged  to  into  company  more  than  she  liked.  it  was  necessary  to  make  circumstance  a  matter  of  because  on  such  occasions  is  the  etiquette;  but  no  one  was  less  likely  than  mrs.  bennet  find  comfort  in  staying  home  at  any  period  of  her  life.  concluded  with  many  good  wishes  that  lady  lucas  might  soon  equally  though  evidently  and  triumphantly  there  was  no  chance  of  in  vain  did  elizabeth  endeavour  to  check  the  rapidity  of  s  or  persuade  her  to  describe  her  felicity  in  less  audible  whisper;  to  her  inexpressible  could  perceive  that  the  chief  of  it  was  overheard  by  mr.  who  sat  opposite  to  them.  her  mother  only  scolded  her  for  what  is  mr.  darcy  to  that  i  should  be  afraid  of  him?  am  sure  we  owe  him  no  such  particular  civility  as  to  be  to  say  nothing  may  not  like  to  for  s  speak  lower.  what  advantage  can  it  for  you  to  offend  mr.  darcy?  you  will  never  recommend  yourself  his  friend  by  so  nothing  that  she  could  had  any  influence.  mother  would  talk  of  her  views  in  the  same  intelligible  elizabeth  blushed  and  blushed  again  with  shame  and  vexation.  could  not  help  frequently  glancing  her  eye  at  mr.  every  glance  convinced  her  of  what  she  dreaded;  for  though  he  not  always  looking  at  her  she  was  convinced  that  attention  was  invariably  fixed  by  her.  the  expression  of  his  changed  gradually  from  indignant  contempt  to  a  composed  steady  at  mrs.  bennet  had  no  more  to  say;  and  who  had  been  long  yawning  at  the  repetition  of  which  she  saw  no  likelihood  of  was  left  to  the  of  cold  ham  and  chicken.  elizabeth  now  began  to  revive.  but  long  was  the  interval  of  tranquillity;  when  supper  was  singing  was  talked  and  she  had  the  mortification  of  after  very  little  preparing  to  oblige  company.  by  many  significant  looks  and  silent  did  endeavour  to  prevent  such  a  proof  of  but  in  mary  would  not  understand  them;  such  an  opportunity  of  was  delightful  to  and  she  began  her  song.  s  were  fixed  on  her  with  most  painful  and  she  her  progress  through  the  several  stanzas  with  an  impatience  was  very  ill  rewarded  at  their  close;  for  on  amongst  the  thanks  of  the  the  hint  of  a  hope  that  might  be  prevailed  on  to  favour  them  after  the  pause  half  a  minute  began  another.  s  powers  were  by  no  fitted  for  such  a  display;  her  voice  was  and  her  affected.  elizabeth  was  in  agonies.  she  looked  at  to  how  she  bore  it;  but  jane  was  very  composedly  talking  to  she  looked  at  his  two  and  saw  them  making  signs  derision  at  each  and  at  who  imperturbably  grave.  she  looked  at  her  father  to  entreat  lest  mary  should  be  singing  all  night.  he  took  and  when  mary  had  finished  her  second  said  that  will  do  extremely  child.  you  have  delighted  us  enough.  let  the  other  young  ladies  have  time  to  though  pretending  not  to  was  somewhat  and  sorry  for  and  sorry  for  her  s  was  afraid  her  anxiety  had  done  no  good.  others  of  the  party  now  applied  if  said  mr.  were  so  fortunate  as  to  be  able  i  should  have  great  i  am  in  obliging  company  with  an  air;  for  i  consider  music  as  a  very  and  perfectly  compatible  with  the  profession  of  clergyman.  i  do  not  to  assert  that  we  can  justified  in  devoting  too  much  of  our  time  to  for  are  certainly  other  things  to  be  attended  to.  the  rector  of  parish  has  much  to  do.  in  the  first  he  must  make  such  agreement  for  tithes  as  may  be  beneficial  to  himself  and  offensive  to  his  patron.  he  must  write  his  own  sermons;  and  time  that  remains  will  not  be  too  much  for  his  parish  the  care  and  improvement  of  his  which  he  cannot  excused  from  making  as  comfortable  as  possible.  and  i  do  think  it  of  light  importance  that  he  should  have  attentive  conciliatory  manners  towards  especially  towards  to  whom  he  owes  his  preferment.  i  cannot  acquit  him  of  that  nor  could  i  think  well  of  the  man  who  should  omit  an  occasion  testifying  his  respect  towards  anybody  connected  with  and  with  a  bow  to  mr.  he  concluded  his  which  had  been  spoken  so  loud  as  to  be  heard  by  half  the  many  many  smiled;  but  no  one  looked  more  amused  than  bennet  while  his  wife  seriously  commended  mr.  for  having  spoken  so  and  observed  in  a  whisper  lady  that  he  was  a  remarkably  good  kind  of  to  elizabeth  it  appeared  had  her  family  made  an  to  expose  themselves  as  much  as  they  could  during  the  would  have  been  impossible  for  them  to  play  their  parts  with  spirit  or  finer  success;  and  happy  did  she  think  it  for  and  her  sister  that  some  of  the  exhibition  had  escaped  and  that  his  feelings  were  not  of  a  sort  to  be  distressed  by  the  folly  which  he  must  have  witnessed.  that  two  sisters  and  mr.  should  have  such  opportunity  of  ridiculing  her  was  bad  and  could  not  determine  whether  the  silent  contempt  of  the  or  the  insolent  smiles  of  the  were  more  the  rest  of  the  evening  brought  her  little  amusement.  she  teased  by  mr.  who  continued  most  perseveringly  by  and  though  he  could  not  prevail  on  her  to  dance  with  put  it  out  of  her  power  to  dance  with  others.  in  vain  she  entreat  him  to  stand  up  with  somebody  and  offer  introduce  him  to  any  young  lady  in  the  room.  he  assured  as  to  he  was  perfectly  indifferent  to  it;  that  his  object  was  by  delicate  attentions  to  recommend  himself  to  her  that  he  should  therefore  make  a  point  of  remaining  close  to  the  whole  evening.  there  was  no  arguing  upon  such  a  project.  owed  her  greatest  relief  to  her  friend  miss  who  joined  and  naturedly  engaged  mr.  conversation  to  she  was  at  least  free  from  the  offense  of  mr.  s  notice;  though  often  standing  within  a  very  short  distance  quite  he  never  came  near  enough  to  speak.  felt  it  to  be  the  probable  consequence  of  her  allusions  to  and  rejoiced  in  the  longbourn  party  were  the  last  of  all  the  company  to  by  a  manoeuvre  of  mrs.  had  to  wait  for  carriage  a  quarter  of  an  hour  after  everybody  else  was  which  gave  them  time  to  see  how  heartily  they  were  wished  away  some  of  the  family.  mrs.  hurst  and  her  sister  scarcely  their  except  to  complain  of  and  were  impatient  to  have  the  house  to  themselves.  they  repulsed  attempt  of  mrs.  bennet  at  and  by  so  doing  threw  languor  over  the  whole  which  was  very  little  relieved  the  long  speeches  of  mr.  who  was  complimenting  bingley  and  his  sisters  on  the  elegance  of  their  and  the  hospitality  and  politeness  which  had  marked  behaviour  to  their  guests.  darcy  said  nothing  at  all.  mr.  in  equal  was  enjoying  the  scene.  mr.  bingley  and  were  standing  a  little  detached  from  the  talked  only  to  each  other.  elizabeth  preserved  as  steady  silence  as  either  mrs.  hurst  or  miss  bingley;  and  even  lydia  too  much  fatigued  to  utter  more  than  the  occasional  of  how  tired  i  accompanied  by  a  violent  when  at  length  they  arose  to  take  mrs.  bennet  was  pressingly  civil  in  her  hope  of  seeing  the  whole  family  soon  and  addressed  herself  especially  to  mr.  assure  him  how  happy  he  would  make  them  by  eating  a  family  with  them  at  any  without  the  ceremony  of  a  invitation.  bingley  was  all  grateful  and  he  engaged  for  taking  the  earliest  opportunity  of  waiting  on  after  his  return  from  whither  he  was  obliged  to  go  next  day  for  a  short  mrs.  bennet  was  perfectly  and  quitted  the  house  the  delightful  persuasion  allowing  for  the  preparations  of  new  and  wedding  she  should  undoubtedly  see  her  daughter  settled  at  netherfield  the  course  of  three  or  four  months.  of  having  another  married  to  mr.  she  thought  with  equal  with  though  not  pleasure.  elizabeth  was  least  dear  to  her  of  all  her  children;  and  though  the  man  and  match  were  quite  good  enough  for  the  worth  of  each  eclipsed  by  mr.  bingley  and  chapter  the  next  day  opened  a  new  scene  at  longbourn.  mr.  collins  his  declaration  in  form.  having  resolved  to  do  it  without  loss  as  his  leave  of  absence  extended  only  to  the  and  having  no  feelings  of  diffidence  to  make  distressing  to  himself  even  at  the  he  set  about  it  in  very  orderly  with  all  the  which  he  a  regular  part  of  the  business.  on  finding  mrs.  and  one  of  the  younger  girls  soon  he  addressed  the  mother  in  these  may  i  for  your  interest  with  your  fair  when  i  solicit  for  the  honour  of  a  private  with  her  in  the  course  of  this  before  elizabeth  had  time  for  anything  but  a  blush  of  mrs.  bennet  answered  oh  certainly.  i  sure  lizzy  will  be  very  i  am  sure  she  can  have  objection.  i  want  you  up  gathering  work  she  was  hastening  when  elizabeth  called  dear  do  not  go.  i  beg  you  will  not  go.  mr.  collins  excuse  me.  he  can  have  nothing  to  say  to  me  that  anybody  need  hear.  i  am  going  away  lizzy.  i  desire  you  to  stay  where  you  and  upon  s  seeming  with  vexed  and  about  to  she  added:  i  upon  staying  and  hearing  mr.  elizabeth  would  not  oppose  such  an  and  a  consideration  making  her  also  sensible  that  it  would  be  wisest  get  it  over  as  soon  and  as  quietly  as  she  sat  again  and  tried  to  by  incessant  employment  the  which  were  divided  between  distress  and  diversion.  mrs.  and  kitty  walked  and  as  soon  as  they  were  mr.  believe  my  dear  miss  that  your  so  from  doing  you  any  rather  adds  to  your  perfections.  you  would  have  been  less  amiable  in  my  eyes  there  been  this  little  unwillingness;  but  allow  me  assure  that  i  have  your  respected  s  permission  this  address.  you  can  hardly  doubt  the  purport  of  my  however  your  natural  delicacy  may  lead  you  to  dissemble;  attentions  have  been  too  marked  to  be  mistaken.  almost  as  soon  i  entered  the  i  singled  you  out  as  the  companion  of  future  life.  but  before  i  am  run  away  with  by  my  feelings  on  perhaps  it  would  be  advisable  for  me  to  state  my  for  for  coming  into  hertfordshire  the  design  of  selecting  a  as  i  certainly  the  idea  of  mr.  with  all  his  solemn  being  away  with  by  his  made  elizabeth  so  near  she  could  not  use  the  short  pause  he  allowed  in  any  attempt  stop  him  and  he  my  reasons  for  marrying  that  i  think  it  a  thing  for  every  clergyman  in  easy  circumstances  (like  myself)  set  the  example  of  matrimony  in  his  parish;  that  i  convinced  that  it  will  add  very  greatly  to  my  happiness;  which  perhaps  i  ought  to  have  mentioned  that  is  the  particular  advice  and  recommendation  of  the  very  lady  whom  i  have  the  honour  of  calling  patroness.  twice  has  condescended  to  give  me  her  opinion  (unasked  too!)  on  subject;  and  it  was  but  the  very  saturday  night  before  i  between  our  pools  at  while  mrs.  jenkinson  arranging  miss  de  s  that  she  you  must  marry.  a  clergyman  like  you  must  marry.  choose  a  gentlewoman  for  sake;  and  for  your  let  her  be  an  useful  sort  of  not  brought  up  but  able  to  make  a  small  income  go  a  good  way.  this  is  my  find  such  a  woman  as  soon  as  you  bring  her  to  i  will  visit  allow  by  the  to  my  that  i  do  not  reckon  the  notice  and  kindness  of  catherine  de  bourgh  as  among  the  least  of  the  advantages  in  power  to  offer.  you  will  find  her  manners  beyond  anything  i  describe;  and  your  wit  and  i  must  be  to  especially  when  tempered  with  the  silence  and  which  her  rank  will  inevitably  excite.  thus  much  for  my  intention  in  favour  of  matrimony;  it  remains  to  be  told  why  views  were  directed  towards  longbourn  instead  of  my  where  i  can  assure  you  there  are  many  young  women.  but  the  fact  that  as  i  to  this  estate  after  the  death  of  your  honoured  father  may  live  many  years  i  could  not  satisfy  without  resolving  to  choose  a  wife  from  among  his  the  loss  to  them  might  be  as  little  as  when  melancholy  event  takes  as  i  have  may  not  be  for  several  years.  this  has  been  my  fair  and  i  flatter  myself  it  will  not  sink  me  in  esteem.  and  now  nothing  remains  for  me  but  to  assure  you  in  most  animated  language  of  the  violence  of  my  affection.  fortune  i  am  perfectly  and  shall  make  no  demand  that  nature  on  your  since  i  am  well  aware  that  it  not  be  complied  with;  and  that  one  thousand  pounds  in  the  per  which  will  not  be  yours  till  after  your  is  all  that  you  may  ever  be  entitled  to.  on  that  i  shall  be  uniformly  silent;  and  you  may  yourself  that  no  ungenerous  reproach  shall  ever  pass  my  lips  we  are  it  was  absolutely  necessary  to  interrupt  him  you  are  too  she  cried.  you  forget  that  i  have  no  answer.  let  me  do  it  without  further  loss  of  time.  accept  thanks  for  the  compliment  you  are  paying  me.  i  am  very  of  the  honour  of  your  but  it  is  impossible  for  me  do  otherwise  than  to  decline  i  am  not  now  to  replied  mr.  with  a  formal  of  the  that  it  is  usual  with  young  ladies  to  reject  addresses  of  the  man  whom  they  secretly  mean  to  when  first  applies  for  their  favour;  and  that  sometimes  the  refusal  repeated  a  or  even  a  third  time.  i  am  therefore  by  means  discouraged  by  what  you  have  just  and  shall  hope  lead  you  to  the  altar  ere  upon  my  cried  your  hope  is  a  extraordinary  one  after  my  declaration.  i  do  assure  you  that  i  not  one  of  those  young  ladies  (if  such  young  ladies  there  who  are  so  daring  as  to  risk  their  happiness  on  the  chance  being  asked  a  second  time.  i  am  perfectly  serious  in  my  you  could  not  make  and  i  am  convinced  that  i  am  last  woman  in  the  world  who  could  make  you  so.  were  friend  lady  catherine  to  know  i  am  persuaded  she  would  me  in  every  respect  ill  qualified  for  the  were  it  certain  that  lady  catherine  would  think  said  collins  very  but  i  cannot  imagine  that  her  would  at  all  disapprove  of  you.  and  you  may  be  certain  when  have  the  honour  of  seeing  her  i  shall  speak  in  the  highest  terms  of  your  and  other  mr.  all  praise  of  me  will  be  unnecessary.  must  give  me  leave  to  judge  for  and  pay  me  the  of  believing  what  i  say.  i  wish  you  very  happy  and  very  by  refusing  your  do  all  in  my  power  to  prevent  your  otherwise.  in  making  me  the  you  must  have  satisfied  delicacy  of  your  feelings  with  regard  to  my  and  may  possession  of  longbourn  estate  whenever  it  without  reproach.  this  matter  may  be  finally  and  rising  as  she  thus  she  would  quitted  the  had  mr.  collins  not  thus  addressed  when  i  do  myself  the  honour  of  speaking  to  you  next  on  i  shall  hope  to  receive  a  more  favourable  answer  you  have  now  given  me;  though  i  am  far  from  accusing  you  cruelty  at  because  i  know  it  to  be  the  custom  of  your  sex  to  reject  a  man  on  the  first  perhaps  you  have  even  now  said  as  much  to  encourage  my  suit  would  be  consistent  with  the  true  delicacy  of  the  mr.  cried  elizabeth  with  some  puzzle  me  exceedingly.  if  what  i  have  hitherto  said  can  appear  you  in  the  form  of  i  know  not  how  to  express  refusal  in  such  a  way  as  to  convince  you  of  its  being  you  must  give  me  leave  to  flatter  my  dear  your  refusal  of  my  addresses  is  merely  words  of  course.  reasons  for  believing  it  are  briefly  these:  it  does  not  appear  me  that  my  hand  is  unworthy  of  your  or  that  establishment  i  can  offer  would  be  any  other  than  desirable.  my  situation  in  my  connections  with  the  of  de  and  my  relationship  to  your  are  highly  in  my  favour;  and  you  should  take  it  into  that  in  spite  of  your  manifold  it  by  no  means  certain  that  another  offer  of  marriage  may  ever  made  you.  your  portion  is  unhappily  so  small  that  it  will  in  likelihood  undo  the  effects  of  your  loveliness  and  qualifications.  as  i  must  therefore  conclude  that  you  are  serious  in  your  rejection  of  i  shall  choose  to  attribute  to  your  wish  of  increasing  my  love  by  according  to  usual  practice  of  elegant  i  do  assure  that  i  have  no  pretensions  whatever  that  kind  of  elegance  which  consists  in  tormenting  a  man.  i  would  rather  be  paid  the  compliment  of  being  sincere.  i  thank  you  again  and  again  for  the  honour  you  have  me  in  your  but  to  accept  them  is  impossible.  my  feelings  in  every  respect  forbid  it.  can  i  plainer?  do  not  consider  me  now  as  an  elegant  to  plague  but  as  a  rational  speaking  the  from  her  you  are  uniformly  cried  with  an  air  of  gallantry;  and  i  am  persuaded  that  when  sanctioned  by  express  authority  of  both  your  excellent  my  will  not  fail  of  being  to  such  perseverance  in  wilful  deception  elizabeth  make  no  and  immediately  and  in  silence  if  he  persisted  in  considering  her  repeated  as  flattering  to  apply  to  her  negative  might  be  uttered  in  such  a  manner  as  to  be  whose  behaviour  at  least  could  not  be  mistaken  for  affectation  and  coquetry  of  an  elegant  chapter  mr.  collins  was  not  left  long  to  the  silent  contemplation  of  successful  love;  for  mrs.  having  dawdled  about  in  vestibule  to  watch  for  the  end  of  the  no  sooner  elizabeth  open  the  door  and  with  quick  step  pass  her  towards  than  she  entered  the  and  both  him  and  herself  in  warm  terms  on  the  happy  prospect  of  nearer  connection.  mr.  collins  received  and  returned  felicitations  with  equal  and  then  proceeded  to  the  particulars  of  their  with  the  result  of  which  trusted  he  had  every  reason  to  be  since  the  which  his  cousin  had  steadfastly  given  him  would  naturally  from  her  bashful  modesty  and  the  genuine  delicacy  of  this  startled  mrs.  bennet;  she  would  been  glad  to  be  equally  satisfied  that  her  daughter  had  meant  encourage  him  by  protesting  against  his  but  she  not  believe  and  could  not  help  saying  depend  upon  mr.  she  that  lizzy  be  brought  to  reason.  i  will  speak  to  her  about  it  directly.  is  a  very  foolish  and  does  not  know  her  interest  but  i  will  her  know  pardon  me  for  interrupting  cried  mr.  collins;  if  she  is  really  headstrong  and  i  know  not  whether  would  altogether  be  a  very  desirable  wife  to  a  man  in  who  naturally  looks  for  happiness  in  the  state.  if  therefore  she  actually  persists  in  rejecting  my  perhaps  it  were  better  not  to  force  her  into  accepting  because  if  liable  to  such  defects  of  she  could  contribute  much  to  my  you  quite  misunderstand  said  mrs.  lizzy  is  only  headstrong  in  such  matters  as  these.  in  else  she  is  as  natured  a  girl  as  ever  lived.  i  will  directly  to  mr.  and  we  shall  very  soon  settle  it  i  am  she  would  not  give  him  time  to  but  hurrying  instantly  her  called  out  as  she  entered  the  oh!  you  are  wanted  immediately;  we  are  all  in  an  uproar.  must  come  and  make  lizzy  marry  mr.  for  she  vows  she  not  have  and  if  you  do  not  make  haste  he  will  change  mind  and  not  have  mr.  bennet  raised  his  eyes  from  his  book  as  she  fixed  them  on  her  face  with  a  calm  unconcern  which  was  not  in  least  altered  by  her  i  have  not  the  pleasure  of  understanding  said  when  had  finished  her  speech.  of  what  are  you  of  mr.  collins  and  lizzy.  lizzy  declares  she  will  not  have  and  mr.  collins  begins  to  say  that  he  will  not  and  what  am  i  to  do  on  the  occasion?  it  seems  an  speak  to  lizzy  about  it  yourself.  tell  her  that  you  insist  her  marrying  let  her  be  called  down.  she  shall  hear  my  mrs.  bennet  rang  the  and  miss  elizabeth  was  summoned  to  come  cried  her  father  as  she  appeared.  i  sent  for  you  on  an  affair  of  importance.  i  understand  that  collins  has  made  you  an  offer  of  marriage.  is  it  replied  that  it  was.  very  and  this  offer  of  marriage  have  i  very  well.  we  now  come  to  the  point.  your  mother  insists  your  accepting  it.  is  it  not  mrs.  or  i  will  never  see  her  an  unhappy  alternative  is  before  elizabeth.  from  this  you  must  be  a  stranger  to  one  of  your  parents.  your  mother  never  see  you  again  if  you  do  marry  mr.  and  i  never  see  you  again  if  you  elizabeth  could  not  but  smile  at  such  a  conclusion  of  such  but  mrs.  who  had  persuaded  herself  that  husband  regarded  the  affair  as  she  was  what  do  you  mr.  in  talking  this  way?  you  me  to  upon  her  marrying  my  replied  her  i  have  two  small  favours  request.  that  you  will  allow  me  the  free  use  of  understanding  on  the  present  occasion;  and  of  my  i  shall  be  glad  to  have  the  library  to  myself  as  soon  as  may  not  in  spite  of  her  disappointment  in  her  did  mrs.  bennet  give  up  the  point.  she  talked  to  elizabeth  and  again;  coaxed  and  threatened  her  by  turns.  she  endeavoured  secure  jane  in  her  interest;  but  with  all  declined  interfering;  and  sometimes  real  and  sometimes  with  playful  replied  her  attacks.  though  her  manner  her  never  mr.  was  meditating  in  solitude  on  what  passed.  he  thought  too  well  of  himself  to  comprehend  on  motives  his  cousin  could  refuse  him;  and  though  his  pride  he  suffered  in  no  other  way.  his  regard  for  her  was  imaginary;  and  the  possibility  of  her  deserving  her  reproach  prevented  his  feeling  any  while  the  family  were  in  this  charlotte  lucas  came  spend  the  day  with  them.  she  was  met  in  the  vestibule  by  flying  to  cried  in  a  half  i  am  glad  you  for  there  is  such  fun  here!  what  do  you  think  has  this  morning?  mr.  collins  has  made  an  offer  to  and  will  not  have  charlotte  hardly  had  time  to  before  they  were  joined  who  came  to  tell  the  same  news;  and  no  sooner  had  entered  the  where  mrs.  bennet  was  than  likewise  began  on  the  calling  on  miss  lucas  for  and  entreating  her  to  persuade  her  friend  lizzy  comply  with  the  wishes  of  all  her  family.  pray  my  dear  she  added  in  a  melancholy  for  nobody  is  on  nobody  takes  part  with  me.  i  am  cruelly  nobody  for  my  poor  s  reply  was  spared  by  the  entrance  of  jane  there  she  continued  mrs.  looking  unconcerned  as  may  and  caring  no  more  for  us  than  if  we  at  provided  she  can  have  her  own  way.  but  i  tell  if  you  take  it  into  your  head  to  go  on  refusing  every  of  marriage  in  this  you  will  never  get  a  husband  at  i  am  sure  i  do  not  know  who  is  to  maintain  you  when  your  is  dead.  shall  not  be  able  to  keep  and  so  i  warn  you.  have  done  with  you  from  this  very  day.  i  told  you  in  the  you  that  i  should  never  speak  to  you  and  you  find  me  as  good  as  my  word.  i  have  no  pleasure  in  talking  undutiful  children.  not  that  i  have  much  talking  to  anybody.  people  who  suffer  as  i  do  from  complaints  can  have  no  great  inclination  for  talking.  nobody  tell  what  i  suffer!  but  it  is  always  so.  those  who  do  complain  are  never  her  daughters  listened  in  silence  to  this  sensible  any  attempt  to  reason  with  her  or  soothe  her  would  only  the  irritation.  she  talked  without  from  any  of  till  they  were  joined  by  mr.  entered  the  room  with  an  air  more  stately  than  and  perceiving  she  said  to  the  i  do  insist  that  all  of  hold  your  and  let  me  and  collins  have  a  little  conversation  elizabeth  passed  quietly  out  of  the  jane  and  but  lydia  stood  her  determined  to  hear  all  could;  and  detained  first  by  the  civility  of  whose  enquiries  after  herself  and  all  her  family  very  and  then  by  a  little  satisfied  with  walking  to  the  window  and  pretending  not  to  hear.  in  doleful  voice  mrs.  bennet  began  the  projected  conversation:  mr.  my  dear  replied  let  us  be  for  ever  silent  on  point.  far  be  it  from  he  presently  in  a  that  marked  his  to  resent  the  behaviour  of  daughter.  resignation  to  inevitable  evils  is  the  duty  of  us  the  peculiar  duty  of  a  young  man  who  has  been  so  fortunate  as  have  been  in  early  preferment;  and  i  trust  i  am  resigned.  not  the  less  so  from  feeling  a  doubt  of  my  positive  happiness  my  fair  cousin  honoured  me  with  her  hand;  for  i  have  observed  that  resignation  is  never  so  perfect  as  when  blessing  denied  begins  to  lose  somewhat  of  its  value  in  estimation.  you  will  i  consider  me  as  showing  disrespect  to  your  my  dear  by  thus  withdrawing  pretensions  to  your  s  without  having  yourself  and  mr.  bennet  the  compliment  of  requesting  you  interpose  your  authority  in  my  behalf.  my  conduct  i  objectionable  in  having  accepted  my  dismission  from  s  lips  instead  of  your  own.  but  we  are  all  liable  error.  i  have  certainly  meant  well  through  the  whole  affair.  object  has  been  to  secure  an  amiable  companion  for  due  consideration  for  the  advantage  of  all  your  and  if  has  been  at  all  i  here  beg  leave  chapter  the  discussion  of  mr.  s  offer  was  now  nearly  at  an  and  elizabeth  had  only  to  suffer  from  the  uncomfortable  necessarily  attending  and  occasionally  from  some  allusions  of  her  mother.  as  for  the  gentleman  feelings  were  chiefly  not  by  embarrassment  or  by  trying  to  avoid  but  by  stiffness  of  and  resentful  silence.  he  scarcely  ever  spoke  to  and  assiduous  attentions  which  he  had  been  so  sensible  of  were  transferred  for  the  rest  of  the  day  to  miss  civility  in  listening  to  him  was  a  seasonable  relief  to  them  and  especially  to  her  the  morrow  produced  no  abatement  of  mrs.  s  humour  ill  health.  mr.  collins  was  also  in  the  same  state  of  pride.  elizabeth  had  hoped  that  his  resentment  might  shorten  but  his  plan  did  not  appear  in  the  least  affected  by  he  was  always  to  have  gone  on  and  to  saturday  he  to  after  the  girls  walked  to  meryton  to  enquire  if  wickham  were  and  to  lament  over  his  absence  from  netherfield  ball.  he  joined  them  on  their  entering  the  attended  them  to  their  s  where  his  regret  and  the  concern  of  was  well  talked  over.  to  he  voluntarily  acknowledged  that  the  necessity  of  absence  been  i  said  as  the  time  drew  near  that  i  had  better  meet  mr.  darcy;  that  to  be  in  the  same  the  same  party  him  for  so  many  hours  might  be  more  than  i  could  and  that  scenes  might  arise  unpleasant  to  more  than  she  highly  approved  his  and  they  had  leisure  for  full  discussion  of  and  for  all  the  commendation  which  civilly  bestowed  on  each  as  wickham  and  another  walked  back  with  them  to  and  during  the  walk  particularly  attended  to  her.  his  accompanying  them  was  a  advantage;  she  felt  all  the  compliment  it  offered  to  it  was  most  acceptable  as  an  occasion  of  introducing  him  to  father  and  soon  after  their  a  letter  was  delivered  to  miss  it  came  from  netherfield.  the  envelope  contained  a  sheet  pressed  well  covered  with  a  flowing  hand;  and  elizabeth  saw  her  s  change  as  she  read  and  saw  her  dwelling  intently  on  particular  passages.  jane  recollected  herself  and  the  letter  tried  to  join  with  her  usual  cheerfulness  in  general  conversation;  but  elizabeth  felt  an  anxiety  on  subject  which  drew  off  her  attention  even  from  wickham;  and  sooner  had  he  and  his  companion  taken  than  a  glance  jane  invited  her  to  follow  her  up  stairs.  when  they  had  their  own  taking  out  the  this  is  from  caroline  bingley;  what  it  contains  has  surprised  a  good  deal.  the  whole  party  have  left  netherfield  by  this  and  are  on  their  way  to  and  without  any  intention  of  back  again.  you  shall  hear  what  she  she  then  read  the  first  sentence  which  comprised  information  of  their  having  just  resolved  to  follow  their  to  town  and  of  their  meaning  to  dine  in  where  mr.  hurst  had  a  house.  the  next  was  in  these  i  do  not  pretend  to  regret  anything  i  shall  leave  except  your  my  dearest  friend;  but  will  at  some  future  to  enjoy  many  returns  of  delightful  intercourse  we  have  and  in  the  meanwhile  lessen  the  pain  of  separation  by  a  very  frequent  and  unreserved  correspondence.  i  depend  on  you  for  to  highflown  expressions  elizabeth  listened  with  all  insensibility  of  distrust;  and  though  the  suddenness  of  removal  surprised  she  saw  nothing  in  it  really  to  lament;  was  not  to  be  supposed  that  their  absence  from  netherfield  prevent  mr.  s  being  there;  and  as  to  the  loss  of  she  was  persuaded  that  jane  must  cease  to  regard  the  enjoyment  of  it  is  said  after  a  short  that  you  not  be  able  to  see  your  friends  before  they  leave  the  but  may  we  not  hope  that  the  period  of  future  happiness  to  miss  bingley  looks  forward  may  arrive  earlier  than  she  is  and  that  the  delightful  intercourse  you  have  known  as  will  be  renewed  with  yet  greater  satisfaction  as  sisters?  bingley  will  not  be  detained  in  london  by  caroline  decidedly  says  that  none  of  the  party  will  return  hertfordshire  this  winter.  i  will  read  it  to  when  my  brother  left  us  he  imagined  that  the  which  took  him  to  london  might  be  concluded  in  three  or  days;  but  as  we  are  certain  it  cannot  be  and  at  the  same  convinced  that  when  charles  gets  to  town  he  will  be  in  no  to  leave  it  we  have  determined  on  following  him  that  he  may  not  be  obliged  to  spend  his  vacant  hours  in  comfortless  hotel.  many  of  my  acquaintances  are  already  there  the  winter;  i  wish  that  i  could  hear  that  my  dearest  had  any  intention  of  making  one  of  the  but  of  that  despair.  i  sincerely  hope  your  christmas  in  hertfordshire  abound  in  the  gaieties  which  that  season  generally  that  your  beaux  will  be  so  numerous  as  to  prevent  your  the  loss  of  the  three  of  whom  we  shall  deprive  it  is  evident  by  added  that  he  comes  back  no  this  it  is  only  evident  that  miss  bingley  does  not  mean  that  why  will  you  think  so?  it  must  be  his  own  doing.  he  is  his  master.  but  you  do  not  know  .  i  read  you  the  which  particularly  hurts  me.  i  will  have  no  reserves  from  mr.  darcy  is  impatient  to  see  his  sister;  to  confess  are  scarcely  less  eager  to  meet  her  again.  i  do  not  think  georgiana  darcy  has  her  equal  for  and  accomplishments;  and  the  affection  she  inspires  in  louisa  myself  is  heightened  into  something  still  more  the  hope  we  dare  entertain  of  her  being  hereafter  our  sister.  do  not  know  whether  i  ever  before  mentioned  to  you  my  feelings  this  subject;  but  i  will  not  leave  the  country  without  and  i  trust  you  will  not  esteem  them  unreasonable.  brother  admires  her  greatly  already;  he  will  have  opportunity  now  of  seeing  her  on  the  most  intimate  footing;  relations  all  wish  the  connection  as  much  as  his  own;  and  s  partiality  is  not  misleading  i  when  i  charles  most  capable  of  engaging  any  s  heart.  with  these  circumstances  to  favour  an  and  nothing  prevent  am  i  my  dearest  in  indulging  the  hope  an  event  which  will  secure  the  happiness  of  so  what  do  you  think  of  my  dear  said  as  she  finished  it.  is  it  not  clear  enough?  does  it  expressly  declare  that  caroline  neither  expects  nor  wishes  me  be  her  sister;  that  she  is  perfectly  convinced  of  her  indifference;  and  that  if  she  suspects  the  nature  of  my  for  she  means  (most  kindly!)  to  put  me  on  my  guard?  there  be  any  other  opinion  on  the  there  can;  for  mine  is  totally  different.  will  you  most  you  shall  have  it  in  a  few  words.  miss  bingley  sees  that  brother  is  in  love  with  and  wants  him  to  marry  miss  she  follows  him  to  town  in  hope  of  keeping  him  and  to  persuade  you  that  he  does  not  care  about  jane  shook  her  you  ought  to  believe  me.  no  one  who  has  ever  you  together  can  doubt  his  affection.  miss  i  am  cannot.  she  is  not  such  a  simpleton.  could  she  have  seen  half  much  love  in  mr.  darcy  for  she  would  have  ordered  wedding  clothes.  but  the  case  is  this:  we  are  not  rich  enough  grand  enough  for  them;  and  she  is  the  more  anxious  to  get  darcy  for  her  from  the  notion  that  when  there  has  she  may  have  less  trouble  in  achieving  second;  in  which  there  is  certainly  some  and  i  say  it  would  if  miss  de  bourgh  were  out  of  the  way.  my  dearest  you  cannot  seriously  imagine  that  because  bingley  tells  you  her  brother  greatly  admires  miss  he  in  the  smallest  degree  less  sensible  of  merit  than  when  took  leave  of  you  on  or  that  it  will  be  in  her  power  persuade  him  instead  of  being  in  love  with  he  is  much  in  love  with  her  if  we  thought  alike  of  miss  replied  representation  of  all  this  might  make  me  quite  easy.  but  i  the  foundation  is  unjust.  caroline  is  incapable  of  deceiving  anyone;  and  all  that  i  can  hope  in  this  case  is  she  is  deceiving  that  is  right.  you  could  not  have  started  a  more  happy  since  you  will  not  take  comfort  in  mine.  believe  her  to  by  all  means.  you  have  now  done  your  duty  by  must  fret  no  my  dear  can  i  be  even  supposing  the  accepting  a  man  whose  sisters  and  friends  are  all  wishing  him  marry  you  must  decide  for  said  elizabeth;  and  mature  you  find  that  the  misery  of  disobliging  two  sisters  is  more  than  equivalent  to  the  happiness  of  being  i  advise  you  by  all  means  to  refuse  how  can  you  talk  said  faintly  smiling.  you  must  that  though  i  should  be  exceedingly  grieved  at  i  could  not  i  did  not  think  you  would;  and  that  being  the  i  consider  your  situation  with  much  but  if  he  returns  no  more  this  my  choice  will  never  required.  a  thousand  things  may  arise  in  six  the  idea  of  his  returning  no  more  elizabeth  treated  with  utmost  contempt.  it  appeared  to  her  merely  the  suggestion  s  interested  and  she  could  not  for  a  suppose  that  those  however  openly  or  artfully  could  influence  a  young  man  so  totally  independent  of  she  represented  to  her  sister  as  forcibly  as  possible  what  felt  on  the  and  had  soon  the  pleasure  of  seeing  happy  effect.  s  temper  was  not  and  she  gradually  led  to  though  the  diffidence  of  sometimes  overcame  the  that  bingley  would  return  netherfield  and  answer  every  wish  of  her  they  agreed  that  mrs.  bennet  should  only  hear  of  the  departure  the  without  being  alarmed  on  the  score  of  the  conduct;  but  even  this  partial  communication  gave  her  a  deal  of  and  she  bewailed  it  as  exceedingly  unlucky  the  ladies  should  happen  to  go  away  just  as  they  were  all  so  intimate  together.  after  lamenting  at  she  had  the  consolation  that  mr.  bingley  would  be  down  again  and  soon  dining  at  and  the  conclusion  all  was  the  comfortable  that  though  he  had  invited  only  to  a  family  she  would  take  care  to  have  full  chapter  the  bennets  were  engaged  to  dine  with  the  lucases  and  during  the  chief  of  the  day  was  miss  lucas  so  kind  as  to  to  mr.  collins.  elizabeth  took  an  opportunity  of  thanking  it  keeps  him  in  good  said  and  i  am  more  to  you  than  i  can  charlotte  assured  her  friend  of  satisfaction  in  being  and  that  it  amply  repaid  her  the  little  sacrifice  of  her  time.  this  was  very  s  kindness  extended  farther  than  elizabeth  had  conception  of;  its  object  was  nothing  else  than  to  secure  from  any  return  of  mr.  s  by  engaging  towards  herself.  such  was  miss  s  scheme;  and  were  so  that  when  they  parted  at  she  have  felt  almost  secure  of  success  if  he  had  not  been  to  hertfordshire  so  very  soon.  but  here  she  did  injustice  to  fire  and  independence  of  his  for  it  led  him  to  out  of  longbourn  house  the  next  morning  with  admirable  and  hasten  to  lucas  lodge  to  throw  himself  at  her  feet.  he  anxious  to  avoid  the  notice  of  his  from  a  that  if  they  saw  him  they  could  not  fail  to  his  and  he  was  not  willing  to  have  the  attempt  known  its  success  might  be  known  likewise;  for  though  feeling  and  with  for  charlotte  had  been  he  was  comparatively  diffident  since  the  of  wednesday.  his  was  of  the  most  kind.  miss  lucas  perceived  him  from  an  upper  window  as  he  towards  the  and  instantly  set  out  to  meet  him  in  the  lane.  but  little  had  she  dared  to  hope  that  so  much  and  eloquence  awaited  her  in  as  short  a  time  as  mr.  s  long  speeches  would  everything  was  settled  between  them  to  the  satisfaction  of  and  as  they  entered  the  house  he  earnestly  entreated  her  to  the  day  that  was  to  make  him  the  happiest  of  men;  and  though  a  solicitation  must  be  waived  for  the  the  lady  felt  inclination  to  trifle  with  his  happiness.  the  stupidity  which  he  was  favoured  by  nature  must  guard  his  courtship  from  charm  that  could  make  a  woman  wish  for  its  continuance;  and  who  accepted  him  solely  from  the  pure  and  desire  of  an  cared  not  how  soon  that  were  sir  william  and  lady  lucas  were  speedily  applied  to  for  consent;  and  it  was  bestowed  with  a  most  joyful  alacrity.  s  present  circumstances  made  it  a  most  eligible  match  their  to  whom  they  could  give  little  fortune;  and  prospects  of  future  wealth  were  exceedingly  fair.  lady  began  directly  to  with  more  interest  than  the  had  ever  excited  how  many  years  longer  mr.  bennet  likely  to  live;  and  sir  william  gave  it  as  his  decided  that  whenever  mr.  collins  should  be  in  possession  of  longbourn  it  would  be  highly  expedient  that  both  he  his  wife  should  make  their  appearance  at  st.  s.  the  in  were  properly  overjoyed  on  the  occasion.  younger  girls  formed  hopes  of  coming  a  year  or  two  than  they  might  otherwise  have  done;  and  the  boys  were  from  their  apprehension  of  s  dying  an  old  charlotte  herself  was  tolerably  composed.  she  had  gained  and  had  time  to  consider  of  it.  her  reflections  were  general  satisfactory.  mr.  to  be  was  sensible  nor  agreeable;  his  society  was  and  attachment  to  her  must  be  imaginary.  but  still  he  would  be  husband.  without  thinking  highly  either  of  men  or  marriage  had  always  been  her  object;  it  was  the  only  for  educated  young  women  of  small  and  uncertain  of  giving  must  be  their  preservative  from  want.  this  preservative  she  had  now  and  at  the  age  of  without  having  ever  she  felt  all  the  good  luck  of  it.  the  least  circumstance  in  the  business  was  the  surprise  it  must  occasion  elizabeth  whose  friendship  she  valued  beyond  that  of  other  person.  elizabeth  would  and  probably  would  her;  and  though  her  resolution  was  not  to  be  her  must  be  hurt  by  such  a  disapprobation.  she  resolved  to  give  the  information  and  therefore  charged  mr.  he  returned  to  longbourn  to  to  drop  no  hint  of  what  passed  before  any  of  the  family.  a  promise  of  secrecy  was  course  very  dutifully  but  it  could  not  be  kept  difficulty;  for  the  curiosity  excited  by  his  long  absence  forth  in  such  very  direct  questions  on  his  return  as  some  ingenuity  to  and  he  was  at  the  same  time  great  for  he  was  longing  to  publish  his  as  he  was  to  begin  his  journey  too  early  on  the  morrow  to  see  of  the  the  ceremony  of  taking  was  performed  the  ladies  moved  for  the  night;  and  mrs.  with  politeness  and  said  how  happy  they  should  be  to  him  at  longbourn  whenever  his  engagements  might  allow  to  visit  my  dear  he  this  invitation  is  because  it  is  what  i  have  been  hoping  to  receive;  you  may  be  very  certain  that  i  shall  avail  myself  of  it  as  as  they  were  all  astonished;  and  mr.  who  could  by  no  wish  for  so  speedy  a  immediately  but  is  there  not  danger  of  lady  s  disapprobation  my  good  sir?  you  had  better  neglect  your  relations  than  run  risk  of  offending  your  my  dear  replied  mr.  i  am  particularly  obliged  you  for  this  friendly  and  you  may  depend  upon  my  taking  so  material  a  step  without  her  s  you  cannot  be  too  much  upon  your  guard.  risk  anything  than  her  displeasure;  and  if  you  find  it  likely  to  be  raised  your  coming  to  us  which  i  should  think  stay  quietly  at  and  be  satisfied  that  take  no  believe  my  dear  my  gratitude  is  warmly  excited  by  affectionate  attention;  and  depend  upon  you  will  receive  from  me  a  letter  of  thanks  for  and  for  every  mark  of  your  regard  during  my  stay  in  hertfordshire.  as  for  fair  though  my  absence  may  not  be  long  enough  to  it  i  shall  now  take  the  liberty  of  wishing  them  and  not  excepting  my  cousin  with  proper  civilities  the  ladies  then  withdrew;  all  of  equally  surprised  that  he  meditated  a  quick  return.  mrs.  wished  to  understand  by  it  that  he  thought  of  paying  addresses  to  one  of  her  younger  and  mary  might  have  prevailed  on  to  accept  him.  she  rated  his  abilities  much  than  any  of  the  others;  there  was  a  solidity  in  his  which  often  struck  and  though  by  no  means  so  clever  she  thought  that  if  encouraged  to  read  and  himself  by  such  an  example  as  he  might  become  a  agreeable  companion.  but  on  the  following  every  hope  this  kind  was  done  away.  miss  lucas  called  soon  after  and  in  a  private  conference  with  elizabeth  related  the  event  the  day  the  possibility  of  mr.  s  fancying  himself  in  love  her  friend  had  once  occurred  to  elizabeth  within  the  last  day  two;  but  that  charlotte  could  encourage  him  seemed  almost  as  from  possibility  as  she  could  encourage  him  and  astonishment  was  consequently  so  great  as  to  overcome  at  the  bounds  of  and  she  could  not  help  crying  engaged  to  mr.  collins!  my  dear  the  steady  countenance  which  miss  lucas  had  commanded  in  her  gave  way  to  a  momentary  confusion  here  on  receiving  direct  a  reproach;  as  it  was  no  more  than  she  she  soon  regained  her  and  calmly  why  should  you  be  my  dear  eliza?  do  you  think  incredible  that  mr.  collins  should  be  able  to  procure  any  good  because  he  was  not  so  happy  as  to  succeed  but  elizabeth  had  now  recollected  and  making  a  effort  for  was  able  to  assure  with  tolerable  firmness  the  prospect  of  their  relationship  was  highly  grateful  to  and  that  she  wished  her  all  imaginable  i  see  what  you  are  replied  charlotte.  you  must  very  much  so  lately  as  mr.  collins  wishing  to  marry  you.  but  when  you  have  had  time  to  think  i  hope  you  will  be  satisfied  with  what  i  have  done.  i  not  you  know;  i  never  was.  i  ask  only  a  home;  and  considering  mr.  s  situation  in  i  am  convinced  that  my  chance  of  with  him  is  as  fair  as  most  people  can  boast  on  entering  marriage  elizabeth  quietly  answered  and  after  an  they  returned  to  the  rest  of  the  family.  charlotte  did  stay  much  and  elizabeth  was  then  left  to  reflect  on  she  had  heard.  it  was  a  long  time  before  she  became  at  reconciled  to  the  idea  of  so  unsuitable  a  match.  the  of  mr.  s  making  two  offers  of  marriage  within  three  was  nothing  in  comparison  of  his  being  now  accepted.  she  always  felt  that  s  opinion  of  matrimony  was  not  like  her  but  she  had  not  supposed  it  to  be  possible  when  called  into  she  would  have  sacrificed  every  feeling  to  worldly  advantage.  charlotte  the  wife  of  mr.  was  a  most  humiliating  picture!  and  to  the  pang  of  a  disgracing  herself  and  sunk  in  her  was  added  distressing  conviction  that  it  was  impossible  for  that  friend  be  tolerably  happy  in  the  lot  she  had  chapter  elizabeth  was  sitting  with  her  mother  and  reflecting  what  she  had  and  doubting  whether  she  was  authorised  mention  when  sir  william  lucas  himself  sent  by  to  announce  her  engagement  to  the  family.  with  compliments  to  and  much  gratulation  on  the  prospect  a  connection  between  the  he  unfolded  the  to  audience  not  merely  but  incredulous;  for  mrs.  with  more  perseverance  than  protested  he  must  entirely  mistaken;  and  always  unguarded  and  often  boisterously  good  lord!  sir  how  can  you  tell  such  a  story?  do  you  know  that  mr.  collins  wants  to  marry  nothing  less  than  the  complaisance  of  a  courtier  could  have  without  anger  such  treatment;  but  sir  s  good  carried  him  through  it  all;  and  though  he  begged  leave  to  positive  as  to  the  truth  of  his  he  listened  to  their  impertinence  with  the  most  forbearing  feeling  it  incumbent  on  her  to  relieve  him  from  unpleasant  a  now  put  herself  forward  to  confirm  by  mentioning  her  prior  knowledge  of  it  from  herself;  and  endeavoured  to  put  a  stop  to  the  exclamations  of  mother  and  sisters  by  the  earnestness  of  her  congratulations  sir  in  which  she  was  readily  joined  by  and  making  a  variety  of  remarks  on  the  happiness  that  might  expected  from  the  the  excellent  character  of  mr.  and  the  convenient  distance  of  hunsford  from  mrs.  bennet  was  in  fact  too  much  overpowered  to  say  a  great  while  sir  william  remained;  but  no  sooner  had  he  left  them  her  feelings  found  a  rapid  vent.  in  the  first  persisted  in  disbelieving  the  whole  of  the  matter;  was  very  sure  that  mr.  collins  had  been  taken  in;  trusted  that  they  would  never  be  happy  together;  and  that  the  match  might  be  broken  off.  two  plainly  deduced  from  the  whole:  that  elizabeth  was  the  cause  of  the  mischief;  and  the  other  that  she  herself  had  barbarously  misused  by  them  all;  and  on  these  two  points  principally  dwelt  during  the  rest  of  the  day.  nothing  console  and  nothing  could  appease  her.  nor  did  that  day  wear  her  resentment.  a  week  elapsed  before  she  could  see  without  scolding  a  month  passed  away  before  she  could  to  sir  william  or  lady  lucas  without  being  and  many  were  gone  before  she  could  at  all  forgive  their  mr.  s  emotions  were  much  more  tranquil  on  the  and  such  as  he  did  experience  he  pronounced  to  be  of  a  agreeable  sort;  for  it  gratified  he  to  discover  charlotte  whom  he  had  been  used  to  think  was  as  foolish  as  his  and  more  foolish  than  jane  confessed  herself  a  little  surprised  at  the  match;  but  said  less  of  her  astonishment  than  of  her  earnest  desire  their  happiness;  nor  could  elizabeth  persuade  her  to  consider  as  improbable.  kitty  and  lydia  were  far  from  envying  miss  for  mr.  collins  was  only  a  clergyman;  and  it  affected  them  in  other  way  than  as  a  piece  of  news  to  spread  at  lady  lucas  could  not  be  insensible  of  triumph  on  being  able  retort  on  mrs.  bennet  the  comfort  of  having  a  daughter  married;  and  she  called  at  longbourn  rather  oftener  than  usual  say  how  happy  she  though  mrs.  s  sour  looks  natured  remarks  might  have  been  enough  to  drive  between  elizabeth  and  charlotte  there  was  a  restraint  which  them  mutually  silent  on  the  subject;  and  elizabeth  felt  that  no  real  confidence  could  ever  subsist  between  them  her  disappointment  in  charlotte  made  her  turn  with  fonder  to  her  of  whose  rectitude  and  delicacy  she  was  sure  opinion  could  never  be  and  for  whose  happiness  she  daily  more  as  bingley  had  now  been  gone  a  week  nothing  more  was  heard  of  his  jane  had  sent  caroline  an  early  answer  to  her  and  counting  the  days  till  she  might  reasonably  hope  to  hear  the  promised  letter  of  thanks  from  mr.  collins  arrived  addressed  to  their  and  written  with  all  solemnity  of  gratitude  which  a  s  abode  in  the  might  have  prompted.  after  discharging  his  conscience  on  he  proceeded  to  inform  with  many  of  his  happiness  in  having  obtained  the  affection  their  amiable  miss  and  then  explained  that  was  merely  with  the  view  of  enjoying  her  society  that  he  had  so  ready  to  close  with  their  kind  wish  of  seeing  him  again  whither  he  hoped  to  be  able  to  return  on  fortnight;  for  lady  he  so  heartily  approved  that  she  wished  it  to  take  place  as  soon  as  which  he  trusted  would  be  an  unanswerable  argument  with  amiable  charlotte  to  name  an  early  day  for  making  him  happiest  of  mr.  s  return  into  hertfordshire  was  no  longer  a  matter  pleasure  to  mrs.  bennet.  on  the  she  was  as  disposed  to  complain  of  it  as  her  husband.  it  was  very  that  he  should  come  to  longbourn  instead  of  to  lucas  lodge;  was  also  very  inconvenient  and  exceedingly  troublesome.  she  having  visitors  in  the  house  while  her  health  was  so  and  lovers  were  of  all  people  the  most  disagreeable.  such  the  gentle  murmurs  of  mrs.  and  they  gave  way  only  to  greater  distress  of  mr.  s  continued  neither  jane  nor  elizabeth  were  comfortable  on  this  subject.  after  day  passed  away  without  bringing  any  other  tidings  of  than  the  report  which  shortly  prevailed  in  meryton  of  his  no  more  to  netherfield  the  whole  winter;  a  report  which  incensed  mrs.  and  which  she  never  failed  to  contradict  a  most  scandalous  even  elizabeth  began  to  not  that  bingley  was  that  his  sisters  would  be  successful  in  keeping  him  unwilling  as  she  was  to  admit  an  idea  so  destructive  of  and  so  dishonorable  to  the  stability  of  her  could  not  prevent  its  frequently  occurring.  the  united  efforts  his  two  unfeeling  sisters  and  of  his  overpowering  assisted  by  the  attractions  of  miss  darcy  and  the  amusements  london  might  be  too  she  for  the  strength  of  as  for  anxiety  under  this  suspense  of  more  painful  than  but  whatever  she  felt  she  desirous  of  and  between  herself  and  the  subject  was  never  alluded  to.  but  as  no  delicacy  restrained  her  an  hour  seldom  passed  in  she  did  not  talk  of  express  her  impatience  for  or  even  require  jane  to  confess  that  if  he  did  not  back  she  would  think  herself  very  ill  used.  it  needed  all  steady  mildness  to  bear  these  attacks  with  mr.  collins  returned  most  punctually  on  monday  but  reception  at  longbourn  was  not  quite  so  gracious  as  it  had  on  his  first  introduction.  he  was  too  to  much  attention;  and  luckily  for  the  the  business  making  relieved  them  from  a  great  deal  of  his  company.  chief  of  every  day  was  spent  by  him  at  lucas  and  sometimes  returned  to  longbourn  only  in  time  to  make  an  for  his  absence  before  the  family  went  to  mrs.  bennet  was  really  in  a  most  pitiable  state.  the  very  of  anything  concerning  the  match  threw  her  into  an  agony  and  wherever  she  went  she  was  sure  of  hearing  talked  of.  the  sight  of  miss  lucas  was  odious  to  her.  as  successor  in  that  she  regarded  her  with  abhorrence.  whenever  charlotte  came  to  see  she  her  to  be  anticipating  the  hour  of  possession;  and  whenever  spoke  in  a  low  voice  to  mr.  was  convinced  that  they  talking  of  the  longbourn  and  resolving  to  turn  and  her  daughters  out  of  the  as  soon  as  mr.  bennet  dead.  she  complained  bitterly  of  all  this  to  her  mr.  said  it  is  very  hard  to  think  charlotte  lucas  should  ever  be  mistress  of  this  that  should  be  forced  to  make  way  for  and  live  to  see  her  her  place  in  my  do  not  give  way  to  such  gloomy  thoughts.  let  us  for  better  things.  let  us  flatter  ourselves  that  may  be  this  was  not  very  consoling  to  mrs.  and  instead  of  making  any  she  went  on  as  i  cannot  bear  to  think  that  they  should  have  all  this  estate.  it  was  not  for  the  i  should  not  mind  what  should  not  you  i  should  not  mind  anything  at  let  us  be  thankful  that  you  are  preserved  from  a  state  of  i  never  can  be  mr.  for  anything  about  entail.  how  anyone  could  have  the  conscience  to  entail  away  estate  from  s  own  i  cannot  understand;  and  all  the  sake  of  mr.  collins  too!  why  should  have  it  more  anybody  i  leave  it  to  yourself  to  said  mr.  chapter  miss  s  letter  and  put  an  end  to  doubt.  the  first  sentence  conveyed  the  assurance  of  their  being  all  in  london  for  the  and  concluded  with  her  s  at  not  having  had  time  to  pay  his  respects  to  his  friends  hertfordshire  before  he  left  the  hope  was  entirely  over;  and  when  jane  could  attend  to  rest  of  the  she  found  except  the  affection  of  the  that  could  give  her  any  comfort.  s  praise  occupied  the  chief  of  it.  her  many  were  again  dwelt  and  caroline  boasted  joyfully  of  increasing  and  ventured  to  predict  the  of  the  wishes  which  had  been  unfolded  in  her  former  letter.  wrote  also  with  great  pleasure  of  her  s  being  an  of  mr.  s  and  mentioned  with  raptures  some  plans  the  latter  with  regard  to  new  to  whom  jane  very  soon  communicated  the  chief  of  heard  it  in  silent  indignation.  her  heart  was  between  concern  for  her  and  resentment  against  others.  to  s  assertion  of  her  s  being  partial  miss  darcy  she  paid  no  credit.  that  he  was  really  fond  of  she  doubted  no  more  than  she  had  ever  done;  and  much  as  she  always  been  disposed  to  like  she  could  not  think  hardly  without  on  that  easiness  of  want  of  proper  which  now  made  him  the  slave  of  designing  and  led  him  to  sacrifice  of  his  own  to  the  caprice  of  their  inclination.  had  his  own  been  the  only  he  might  have  been  allowed  sport  with  it  in  whatever  manner  he  thought  but  s  was  involved  in  as  she  thought  he  must  be  himself.  it  was  a  in  on  which  reflection  would  long  and  must  be  unavailing.  she  could  think  of  else;  and  yet  whether  s  regard  had  really  died  were  suppressed  by  his  interference;  whether  he  had  aware  of  s  or  whether  it  had  escaped  observation;  whatever  were  the  though  her  opinion  of  must  be  materially  affected  by  the  her  situation  remained  the  her  peace  equally  a  day  or  two  passed  before  jane  had  courage  to  speak  of  feelings  to  elizabeth;  but  at  on  mrs.  s  leaving  after  a  longer  irritation  than  usual  about  and  its  she  could  not  help  that  my  dear  mother  had  more  command  over  herself!  she  have  no  idea  of  the  pain  she  gives  me  by  her  reflections  on  him.  but  i  will  not  repine.  it  cannot  last  he  will  be  and  we  shall  all  be  as  we  were  elizabeth  looked  at  her  sister  with  incredulous  said  you  doubt  cried  slightly  colouring;  you  no  reason.  he  may  live  in  my  memory  as  the  most  amiable  man  of  but  that  is  all.  i  have  nothing  either  to  hope  and  nothing  to  reproach  him  with.  thank  god!  i  have  pain.  a  little  i  shall  certainly  try  get  the  with  a  stronger  voice  she  soon  i  have  this  that  it  has  not  been  more  than  an  error  of  fancy  my  and  that  it  has  done  no  harm  to  anyone  but  my  dear  exclaimed  you  are  too  good.  sweetness  and  disinterestedness  are  really  angelic;  i  do  not  what  to  say  to  you.  i  feel  as  if  i  had  never  done  you  loved  you  as  you  miss  bennet  eagerly  disclaimed  all  extraordinary  and  back  the  praise  on  her  s  warm  said  this  is  not  fair.  wish  to  think  the  world  and  are  hurt  if  i  speak  ill  of  only  want  to  think  and  you  set  against  it.  do  not  be  afraid  of  my  running  into  any  of  encroaching  on  your  privilege  of  universal  will.  you  not.  there  are  few  people  whom  i  really  and  still  fewer  whom  i  think  well.  the  more  i  see  of  the  the  more  am  dissatisfied  with  it;  and  every  day  confirms  my  belief  of  inconsistency  of  all  human  and  of  the  dependence  that  can  be  placed  on  the  appearance  of  merit  sense.  i  have  met  with  two  instances  one  i  will  mention;  the  other  is  s  marriage.  it  is  in  every  view  it  is  my  dear  do  not  give  way  to  such  feelings  as  these.  will  ruin  your  happiness.  you  do  not  make  allowance  enough  difference  of  situation  and  temper.  consider  mr.  and  s  prudent  remember  that  she  is  one  of  a  large  family;  that  as  to  it  is  a  most  eligible  match;  and  be  ready  to  s  that  she  may  feel  something  like  regard  esteem  for  our  to  oblige  i  would  try  to  believe  almost  but  one  else  could  be  benefited  by  such  a  belief  as  this;  for  were  persuaded  that  charlotte  had  any  regard  for  i  should  think  worse  of  her  understanding  than  i  now  do  of  her  heart.  dear  mr.  collins  is  a  silly  man;  you  know  he  as  well  as  i  do;  and  you  must  well  as  i  that  the  woman  who  married  him  cannot  have  a  way  of  thinking.  you  shall  not  defend  though  it  is  lucas.  you  shall  for  the  sake  of  one  change  meaning  of  principle  and  nor  endeavour  to  yourself  or  that  selfishness  is  and  of  danger  security  for  i  must  think  your  language  too  strong  in  speaking  of  replied  jane;  and  i  hope  you  will  be  convinced  of  it  by  them  happy  together.  but  enough  of  this.  you  alluded  to  else.  you  mentioned  instances.  i  cannot  misunderstand  but  i  entreat  dear  not  to  pain  me  by  thinking  to  and  saying  your  opinion  of  him  is  sunk.  we  not  be  so  ready  to  fancy  ourselves  intentionally  injured.  we  not  expect  a  lively  young  man  to  be  always  so  guarded  circumspect.  it  is  very  often  nothing  but  our  own  vanity  deceives  us.  women  fancy  admiration  means  more  than  it  and  men  take  care  that  they  if  it  is  designedly  they  cannot  be  justified;  but  i  no  idea  of  there  being  so  much  design  in  the  world  as  persons  i  am  far  from  attributing  any  part  of  mr.  s  conduct  said  elizabeth;  but  without  scheming  to  do  or  make  others  there  may  be  and  there  may  be  want  of  attention  to  other  s  and  want  of  will  do  the  and  do  you  impute  it  to  either  of  yes;  to  the  last.  but  if  i  go  i  shall  displease  you  saying  what  i  think  of  persons  you  esteem.  stop  me  whilst  you  in  supposing  his  sisters  influence  in  conjunction  with  his  i  cannot  believe  it.  why  should  they  try  to  influence  him?  can  only  wish  his  happiness;  and  if  he  is  attached  to  other  woman  can  secure  your  first  position  is  false.  they  may  wish  many  things  his  happiness;  they  may  wish  his  increase  of  wealth  consequence;  they  may  wish  him  to  marry  a  girl  who  has  all  importance  of  great  and  beyond  a  they  do  wish  him  to  choose  miss  jane;  but  this  may  be  from  better  feelings  than  you  supposing.  they  have  known  her  much  longer  than  they  have  me;  no  wonder  if  they  love  her  better.  whatever  may  be  own  it  is  very  unlikely  they  should  have  opposed  s.  what  sister  would  think  herself  at  liberty  to  do  unless  there  were  something  very  objectionable?  if  they  him  attached  to  they  would  not  try  to  part  us;  if  he  were  they  could  not  succeed.  by  supposing  such  an  you  everybody  acting  unnaturally  and  and  me  most  unhappy.  not  distress  me  by  the  idea.  i  am  not  ashamed  of  having  at  it  is  it  is  nothing  in  of  what  i  should  feel  in  thinking  ill  of  him  or  his  sisters.  me  take  it  in  the  best  in  the  light  in  which  it  may  elizabeth  could  not  oppose  such  a  wish;  and  from  this  time  s  name  was  scarcely  ever  mentioned  between  mrs.  bennet  still  continued  to  wonder  and  repine  at  his  no  and  though  a  day  seldom  passed  in  which  elizabeth  not  account  for  it  there  was  little  chance  of  her  considering  it  with  less  perplexity.  her  daughter  endeavoured  convince  her  of  what  she  did  not  believe  that  attentions  to  jane  had  been  merely  the  effect  of  a  common  transient  which  ceased  when  he  saw  her  no  more;  though  the  probability  of  the  statement  was  admitted  at  the  she  had  the  same  story  to  repeat  every  day.  mrs.  s  comfort  was  that  mr.  bingley  must  be  down  again  in  the  mr.  bennet  treated  the  matter  differently.  said  one  your  sister  is  crossed  in  i  find.  i  her.  next  to  being  a  girl  likes  to  be  crossed  a  in  love  now  and  then.  it  is  something  to  think  and  it  her  a  sort  of  distinction  among  her  companions.  when  is  your  to  come?  you  will  hardly  bear  to  be  long  outdone  by  jane.  now  your  time.  here  are  officers  enough  in  meryton  to  disappoint  the  young  ladies  in  the  country.  let  wickham  be  your  man.  he  is  pleasant  and  would  jilt  you  thank  but  a  less  agreeable  man  would  satisfy  me.  must  not  all  expect  s  good  said  mr.  but  it  is  a  comfort  to  think  whatever  of  that  kind  may  befall  you  have  an  mother  who  will  make  the  most  of  mr.  s  society  was  of  material  service  in  dispelling  gloom  which  the  late  perverse  occurrences  had  thrown  on  many  the  longbourn  family.  they  saw  him  and  to  his  recommendations  was  now  added  that  of  general  unreserve.  whole  of  what  elizabeth  had  already  his  claims  on  and  all  that  he  had  suffered  from  was  now  acknowledged  and  publicly  canvassed;  and  everybody  was  pleased  know  how  much  they  had  always  disliked  mr.  darcy  before  they  known  anything  of  the  miss  bennet  was  the  only  creature  who  could  suppose  there  be  any  extenuating  circumstances  in  the  unknown  to  society  of  hertfordshire;  her  mild  and  steady  candour  pleaded  for  and  urged  the  possibility  of  by  everybody  else  mr.  darcy  was  condemned  as  the  worst  of  chapter  after  a  week  spent  in  professions  of  love  and  schemes  mr.  collins  was  called  from  his  amiable  charlotte  the  arrival  of  saturday.  the  pain  of  be  alleviated  on  his  by  preparations  for  the  reception  his  bride;  as  he  had  reason  to  that  shortly  after  return  into  the  day  would  be  fixed  that  was  make  him  the  happiest  of  men.  he  took  leave  of  his  relations  longbourn  with  as  much  solemnity  as  before;  wished  his  cousins  health  and  happiness  and  promised  their  another  letter  of  on  the  following  mrs.  bennet  had  the  pleasure  receiving  her  brother  and  his  who  came  as  usual  to  the  christmas  at  longbourn.  mr.  gardiner  was  a  gentlemanlike  greatly  superior  to  his  as  well  nature  as  education.  the  netherfield  ladies  would  have  difficulty  in  believing  that  a  man  who  lived  by  and  view  of  his  own  could  have  been  so  bred  agreeable.  mrs.  who  was  several  years  younger  than  bennet  and  mrs.  was  an  and  a  great  favourite  with  all  her  longbourn  between  the  two  eldest  and  herself  there  subsisted  particular  regard.  they  had  frequently  been  staying  with  her  the  first  part  of  mrs.  s  business  on  her  arrival  was  distribute  her  presents  and  describe  the  newest  fashions.  this  was  done  she  had  a  less  active  part  to  play.  it  became  turn  to  listen.  mrs.  bennet  had  many  grievances  to  much  to  complain  of.  they  had  all  been  very  used  since  last  saw  her  sister.  two  of  her  girls  had  been  upon  the  point  and  after  all  there  was  nothing  in  i  do  not  blame  she  for  jane  would  have  mr.  bingley  if  she  could.  but  lizzy!  sister!  it  is  very  to  think  that  she  might  have  been  mr.  s  wife  by  had  it  not  been  for  her  own  perverseness.  he  made  her  offer  in  this  very  and  she  refused  him.  the  consequence  it  that  lady  lucas  will  have  a  daughter  married  before  and  that  the  longbourn  estate  is  just  as  much  entailed  ever.  the  lucases  are  very  artful  people  sister.  they  all  for  what  they  can  get.  i  am  sorry  to  say  it  of  but  it  is.  it  makes  me  very  nervous  and  to  be  thwarted  so  my  own  and  to  have  neighbours  who  think  of  before  anybody  else.  your  coming  just  at  this  time  the  greatest  of  and  i  am  very  glad  to  hear  what  tell  of  long  mrs.  to  whom  the  chief  of  this  news  had  been  in  the  course  of  jane  and  s  correspondence  made  her  sister  a  slight  in  compassion  to  turned  the  when  alone  with  elizabeth  she  spoke  more  on  subject.  it  seems  likely  to  have  been  a  desirable  match  said  she.  i  am  sorry  it  went  off.  but  these  things  so  often!  a  young  such  as  you  describe  mr.  easily  falls  in  love  with  a  pretty  girl  for  a  few  and  accident  separates  so  easily  forgets  that  these  of  inconsistencies  are  very  an  excellent  consolation  in  its  said  but  will  not  do  for  .  we  do  not  suffer  by  accident.  it  does  often  happen  that  the  interference  of  friends  will  persuade  young  man  of  independent  fortune  to  think  no  more  of  a  girl  he  was  violently  in  love  with  only  a  few  days  but  that  expression  of  violently  in  is  so  so  that  it  gives  me  very  little  idea.  it  as  often  applied  to  feelings  which  arise  from  a  as  to  a  strong  attachment.  how  mr.  s  i  never  saw  a  more  promising  inclination;  he  was  growing  inattentive  to  other  and  wholly  engrossed  by  her.  time  they  it  was  more  decided  and  remarkable.  at  his  ball  he  offended  two  or  three  young  by  not  asking  them  dance;  and  i  spoke  to  him  twice  without  receiving  answer.  could  there  be  finer  symptoms?  is  not  general  the  very  essence  of  of  that  kind  of  love  which  i  suppose  him  to  have  poor  jane!  i  am  sorry  for  with  her  may  not  get  over  it  immediately.  it  had  better  have  happened  lizzy;  you  would  have  laughed  yourself  out  of  it  but  do  you  think  she  would  be  prevailed  upon  to  go  back  with  change  of  scene  might  be  of  and  perhaps  a  little  from  home  may  be  as  useful  as  elizabeth  was  exceedingly  pleased  with  this  and  persuaded  of  her  s  ready  i  added  mrs.  that  no  consideration  with  to  this  young  man  will  influence  her.  we  live  in  so  different  part  of  all  our  connections  are  so  as  well  we  go  out  so  that  it  is  very  improbable  they  should  meet  at  unless  he  really  comes  to  see  and  is  quite  impossible;  for  he  is  now  in  the  custody  his  and  mr.  darcy  would  no  more  suffer  him  to  call  jane  in  such  a  part  of  london!  my  dear  how  could  you  of  it?  mr.  darcy  may  perhaps  have  of  such  a  place  gracechurch  but  he  would  hardly  think  a  s  enough  to  cleanse  him  from  its  were  he  once  to  it;  and  depend  upon  mr.  bingley  never  stirs  without  so  much  the  better.  i  hope  they  will  not  meet  at  all.  but  not  jane  correspond  with  his  sister?  will  not  be  able  help  she  will  drop  the  acquaintance  but  in  spite  of  the  certainty  in  which  elizabeth  affected  place  this  as  well  as  the  still  more  interesting  one  s  being  withheld  from  seeing  she  felt  a  on  the  subject  which  convinced  on  that  she  not  consider  it  entirely  hopeless.  it  was  and  she  thought  it  that  his  affection  might  be  and  the  influence  of  his  friends  successfully  combated  by  more  natural  influence  of  s  miss  bennet  accepted  her  s  invitation  with  pleasure;  and  bingleys  were  no  otherwise  in  her  thoughts  at  the  same  as  she  hoped  by  s  not  living  in  the  same  house  with  she  might  occasionally  spend  a  morning  with  any  danger  of  seeing  the  gardiners  stayed  a  week  at  longbourn;  and  what  with  the  and  the  there  was  not  a  without  its  engagement.  mrs.  bennet  had  so  carefully  provided  the  entertainment  of  her  brother  and  that  they  did  once  sit  down  to  a  family  dinner.  when  the  engagement  was  some  of  the  officers  always  made  part  of  of  officers  mr.  wickham  was  sure  to  be  one;  and  on  these  mrs.  rendered  suspicious  by  s  narrowly  observed  them  both.  without  from  what  she  to  be  very  seriously  in  preference  of  each  other  was  plain  enough  to  make  her  a  uneasy;  and  she  resolved  to  speak  to  elizabeth  on  the  before  she  left  and  represent  to  her  imprudence  of  encouraging  such  an  to  mrs.  wickham  had  one  means  of  affording  unconnected  with  his  general  powers.  about  ten  or  a  dozen  before  her  she  had  spent  a  considerable  time  that  very  part  of  derbyshire  to  which  he  belonged.  they  many  acquaintances  in  common;  and  though  wickham  been  little  there  since  the  death  of  s  it  was  in  his  power  to  give  her  fresher  intelligence  of  her  friends  than  she  had  been  in  the  way  of  mrs.  gardiner  had  seen  and  known  the  late  mr.  darcy  character  perfectly  well.  here  consequently  was  an  subject  of  discourse.  in  comparing  her  recollection  of  with  the  minute  description  which  wickham  could  and  bestowing  her  tribute  of  praise  on  the  character  of  its  she  was  delighting  both  him  and  herself.  on  being  acquainted  with  the  present  mr.  s  treatment  of  tried  to  remember  some  of  that  s  reputed  when  quite  a  lad  which  might  agree  with  and  was  confident  last  that  she  recollected  having  heard  mr.  fitzwilliam  formerly  spoken  of  as  a  very  natured  chapter  mrs.  s  caution  to  elizabeth  was  punctually  and  given  on  the  first  favourable  opportunity  of  speaking  to  alone;  after  honestly  telling  her  what  she  she  thus  you  are  too  sensible  a  to  fall  in  love  because  you  are  warned  against  it;  i  am  afraid  of  speaking  openly.  i  would  have  you  be  on  guard.  do  not  involve  yourself  or  endeavour  to  involve  him  in  affection  which  the  want  of  fortune  would  make  so  very  i  have  nothing  to  say  against  ;  he  is  a  most  young  man;  and  if  he  had  the  fortune  he  ought  to  i  think  you  could  not  do  better.  but  as  it  you  must  not  your  fancy  run  away  with  you.  you  have  and  we  all  you  to  use  it.  your  father  would  depend  on  resolution  good  i  am  sure.  you  must  not  disappoint  your  my  dear  this  is  being  serious  and  i  hope  to  engage  you  to  be  serious  you  need  not  be  under  any  alarm.  i  will  take  care  and  of  mr.  wickham  too.  he  shall  not  be  in  love  with  if  i  can  prevent  you  are  not  serious  i  beg  your  i  will  try  again.  at  present  i  am  not  in  with  mr.  wickham;  i  certainly  am  not.  but  he  beyond  the  most  agreeable  man  i  ever  and  if  he  really  attached  to  i  believe  it  will  be  better  that  he  not.  i  see  the  imprudence  of  it.  oh!  abominable  mr.  my  s  opinion  of  me  does  me  the  greatest  and  should  be  miserable  to  forfeit  it.  my  is  to  mr.  wickham.  in  my  dear  i  should  be  very  sorry  be  the  means  of  making  any  of  you  unhappy;  but  since  we  see  day  that  where  there  is  young  people  are  withheld  by  immediate  want  of  fortune  from  entering  engagements  with  each  how  can  i  promise  to  be  wiser  so  many  of  my  creatures  if  i  am  or  how  am  i  to  know  that  it  would  be  wisdom  to  resist?  all  that  i  can  is  not  to  be  in  a  hurry.  i  will  not  be  in  a  to  believe  myself  his  first  object.  when  i  am  in  company  i  will  not  be  wishing.  in  i  will  do  my  perhaps  it  will  be  as  well  if  you  discourage  his  coming  here  very  often.  at  you  should  not  your  mother  inviting  as  i  did  the  other  said  elizabeth  with  a  conscious  very  it  will  be  wise  in  me  to  refrain  from  .  but  not  imagine  that  he  is  always  here  so  often.  it  is  on  account  that  he  has  been  so  frequently  invited  this  week.  know  my  s  ideas  as  to  the  necessity  of  constant  for  her  friends.  but  and  upon  my  i  will  try  to  what  i  think  to  be  the  wisest;  and  now  i  hope  you  are  her  aunt  assured  her  that  she  and  elizabeth  having  her  for  the  kindness  of  her  they  parted;  a  instance  of  advice  being  given  on  such  a  without  mr.  collins  returned  into  hertfordshire  soon  after  it  had  quitted  by  the  gardiners  and  jane;  but  as  he  took  up  his  with  the  his  arrival  was  no  great  inconvenience  to  bennet.  his  marriage  was  now  fast  and  she  was  length  so  far  resigned  as  to  think  it  and  repeatedly  to  in  an  natured  that  she  they  might  be  thursday  was  to  be  the  wedding  and  wednesday  miss  lucas  paid  her  farewell  visit;  and  when  she  to  take  ashamed  of  her  s  ungracious  reluctant  good  and  sincerely  affected  accompanied  her  out  of  the  room.  as  they  went  charlotte  i  shall  depend  on  hearing  from  you  very  you  certainly  and  i  have  another  favour  to  ask  you.  will  you  come  and  see  we  shall  often  i  in  i  am  not  likely  to  leave  kent  for  some  time.  promise  to  come  to  elizabeth  could  not  though  she  foresaw  little  pleasure  the  my  father  and  maria  are  coming  to  me  in  added  and  i  hope  you  will  consent  to  be  of  the  party.  you  will  be  as  welcome  as  either  of  the  wedding  took  place;  the  bride  and  bridegroom  set  off  for  from  the  church  and  everybody  had  as  much  to  or  on  the  subject  as  usual.  elizabeth  soon  heard  from  friend;  and  their  correspondence  was  as  regular  and  frequent  it  had  ever  been;  that  it  should  be  equally  unreserved  impossible.  elizabeth  could  never  address  her  without  that  all  the  comfort  of  intimacy  was  and  though  not  to  slacken  as  a  it  was  for  the  sake  of  had  rather  than  what  was.  s  first  letters  received  with  a  good  deal  of  eagerness;  there  could  not  but  curiosity  to  know  how  she  would  speak  of  her  new  how  would  like  lady  and  how  happy  she  would  dare  herself  to  be;  when  the  letters  were  elizabeth  that  charlotte  expressed  herself  on  every  point  exactly  as  might  have  foreseen.  she  wrote  seemed  surrounded  and  mentioned  nothing  which  she  could  not  praise.  and  were  all  to  and  lady  s  behaviour  was  most  friendly  obliging.  it  was  mr.  s  picture  of  hunsford  and  rationally  softened;  and  elizabeth  perceived  that  she  must  for  her  own  visit  there  to  know  the  jane  had  already  written  a  few  lines  to  her  sister  to  their  safe  arrival  in  london;  and  when  she  wrote  hoped  it  would  be  in  her  power  to  say  something  of  the  her  impatience  for  this  second  letter  was  as  well  rewarded  impatience  generally  is.  jane  had  been  a  week  in  town  either  seeing  or  hearing  from  caroline.  she  accounted  for  by  supposing  that  her  last  letter  to  her  friend  longbourn  had  by  some  accident  been  my  she  is  going  morrow  into  that  part  the  and  i  shall  take  the  opportunity  of  calling  grosvenor  she  wrote  again  when  the  visit  was  and  she  had  seen  bingley.  i  did  not  think  caroline  in  were  her  but  she  was  very  glad  to  see  and  reproached  me  for  her  no  notice  of  my  coming  to  london.  i  was  last  letter  had  never  reached  her.  i  enquired  after  of  course.  he  was  but  so  much  engaged  with  darcy  that  they  scarcely  ever  saw  him.  i  found  that  miss  was  expected  to  dinner.  i  wish  i  could  see  her.  my  visit  was  as  caroline  and  mrs.  hurst  were  going  out.  i  dare  say  shall  see  them  soon  elizabeth  shook  her  head  over  this  letter.  it  convinced  her  accident  only  could  discover  to  mr.  bingley  her  s  being  four  weeks  passed  and  jane  saw  nothing  of  him.  endeavoured  to  persuade  herself  that  she  did  not  regret  it;  she  could  no  longer  be  blind  to  miss  s  inattention.  waiting  at  home  every  morning  for  a  and  every  evening  a  fresh  excuse  for  the  visitor  did  at  appear;  but  the  shortness  of  her  and  yet  alteration  of  her  manner  would  allow  jane  to  deceive  herself  longer.  the  letter  which  she  wrote  on  this  occasion  to  her  will  prove  what  she  my  dearest  lizzy  i  am  be  incapable  of  triumphing  her  better  at  my  when  i  confess  myself  have  been  entirely  deceived  in  miss  s  regard  for  me.  my  dear  though  the  event  has  proved  you  do  think  me  obstinate  if  i  still  assert  considering  what  behaviour  my  confidence  was  as  natural  as  your  suspicion.  do  not  at  all  comprehend  her  reason  for  wishing  to  be  with  me;  but  if  the  same  circumstances  were  to  happen  i  sure  i  should  be  deceived  again.  caroline  did  not  return  my  till  yesterday;  and  not  a  not  a  did  i  receive  in  meantime.  when  she  did  it  was  very  evident  that  she  had  pleasure  in  it;  she  made  a  formal  for  calling  said  not  a  word  of  wishing  to  see  me  was  in  every  respect  so  altered  a  that  when  she  away  i  was  perfectly  resolved  to  continue  the  acquaintance  longer.  i  though  i  cannot  help  blaming  her.  she  was  wrong  in  singling  me  out  as  she  did;  i  can  safely  say  that  advance  to  intimacy  began  on  her  side.  but  i  pity  she  must  feel  that  she  has  been  acting  and  because  i  very  sure  that  anxiety  for  her  brother  is  the  cause  of  it.  i  not  explain  myself  farther;  and  though  know  this  anxiety  be  quite  yet  if  she  feels  it  will  easily  for  her  behaviour  to  me;  and  so  deservedly  dear  as  he  is  to  whatever  anxiety  she  must  feel  on  his  behalf  is  and  amiable.  i  cannot  but  at  her  having  any  fears  if  he  had  at  all  cared  about  we  must  long  ago.  he  knows  of  my  being  in  i  am  something  she  said  herself;  and  yet  it  would  by  her  of  as  if  she  wanted  to  persuade  herself  that  he  really  partial  to  miss  darcy.  i  cannot  understand  it.  if  i  not  afraid  of  judging  i  should  be  almost  tempted  to  that  there  is  a  strong  appearance  of  duplicity  in  all  this.  but  will  endeavour  to  banish  every  painful  and  think  only  what  will  make  me  your  and  the  kindness  of  my  dear  uncle  and  aunt.  let  me  hear  from  you  soon.  miss  bingley  said  something  of  his  never  returning  netherfield  of  giving  up  the  but  not  with  certainty.  we  had  better  not  mention  it.  i  am  extremely  glad  you  have  such  pleasant  accounts  from  our  friends  at  pray  go  to  see  with  sir  william  and  maria.  i  am  sure  will  be  very  comfortable  this  letter  gave  elizabeth  some  pain;  but  her  spirits  returned  she  considered  that  jane  would  no  longer  be  by  the  at  least.  all  expectation  from  the  brother  was  now  over.  she  would  not  even  wish  for  a  renewal  of  his  his  character  sunk  on  every  review  of  it;  and  as  a  punishment  as  well  as  a  possible  advantage  to  she  seriously  he  might  really  soon  marry  mr.  s  as  by  she  would  make  him  abundantly  regret  what  he  had  mrs.  gardiner  about  this  time  reminded  elizabeth  of  her  concerning  that  and  required  information;  elizabeth  had  such  to  send  as  might  rather  give  contentment  her  aunt  than  to  herself.  his  apparent  partiality  had  his  attentions  were  he  was  the  admirer  of  some  one  elizabeth  was  watchful  enough  to  see  it  but  she  could  see  and  write  of  it  without  material  pain.  her  heart  had  been  slightly  and  her  vanity  was  satisfied  with  that  would  have  been  his  only  had  fortune  it.  the  sudden  acquisition  of  ten  thousand  pounds  was  the  remarkable  charm  of  the  young  lady  to  whom  he  was  now  himself  agreeable;  but  less  sighted  perhaps  this  case  than  in  did  not  quarrel  with  him  for  wish  of  independence.  on  the  could  be  natural;  and  while  able  to  suppose  that  it  cost  him  a  struggles  to  relinquish  she  was  ready  to  allow  it  a  wise  desirable  measure  for  and  could  very  sincerely  wish  all  this  was  acknowledged  to  mrs.  gardiner;  and  after  the  she  thus  went  on:  i  am  now  my  that  i  have  never  been  much  in  love;  for  had  i  experienced  that  pure  and  elevating  i  should  at  detest  his  very  and  wish  him  all  manner  of  evil.  but  feelings  are  not  only  cordial  towards  ;  they  are  impartial  towards  miss  king.  i  cannot  find  out  that  i  hate  her  or  that  i  am  in  the  least  unwilling  to  think  her  a  very  sort  of  girl.  there  can  be  no  love  in  all  this.  my  has  been  effectual;  and  though  i  certainly  should  be  a  interesting  object  to  all  my  acquaintances  were  i  distractedly  love  with  i  cannot  say  that  i  regret  my  insignificance.  importance  may  sometimes  be  purchased  too  kitty  and  lydia  take  his  defection  much  more  to  heart  than  i  they  are  young  in  the  ways  of  the  and  not  yet  open  to  mortifying  conviction  that  handsome  young  men  must  have  to  live  on  as  well  as  the  chapter  with  no  greater  events  than  these  in  the  longbourn  otherwise  diversified  by  little  beyond  the  walks  to  sometimes  dirty  and  sometimes  did  january  and  february  away.  march  was  to  take  elizabeth  to  hunsford.  she  had  not  first  thought  very  seriously  of  going  thither;  but  soon  was  depending  on  the  plan  and  she  gradually  to  consider  it  herself  with  greater  pleasure  as  well  as  certainty.  absence  had  increased  her  desire  of  seeing  and  weakened  her  disgust  of  mr.  collins.  there  was  in  the  and  with  such  a  mother  and  uncompanionable  home  could  not  be  a  change  was  not  unwelcome  for  its  own  sake.  the  journey  moreover  give  her  a  peep  at  jane;  in  as  the  time  she  would  have  been  very  sorry  for  any  delay.  went  on  and  was  finally  settled  according  s  first  sketch.  she  was  to  accompany  sir  william  his  second  daughter.  the  improvement  of  spending  a  night  london  was  added  in  and  the  plan  became  perfect  as  could  the  only  pain  was  in  leaving  her  who  would  certainly  and  when  it  came  to  the  so  little  liked  that  he  told  her  to  write  to  and  almost  promised  answer  her  the  farewell  between  herself  and  mr.  wickham  was  friendly;  on  his  side  even  more.  his  present  pursuit  could  make  him  forget  that  elizabeth  had  been  the  first  to  excite  to  deserve  his  the  first  to  listen  and  to  first  to  be  admired;  and  in  his  manner  of  bidding  her  wishing  her  every  reminding  her  of  what  she  was  expect  in  lady  catherine  de  and  trusting  their  opinion  their  opinion  of  would  always  there  was  an  interest  which  she  felt  must  ever  attach  her  him  with  a  most  sincere  regard;  and  she  parted  from  him  whether  married  or  he  must  always  be  her  model  the  amiable  and  her  travellers  the  next  day  were  not  of  a  kind  to  make  think  him  less  agreeable.  sir  william  and  his  a  humoured  but  as  headed  as  nothing  to  say  that  could  be  worth  and  were  listened  with  about  as  much  delight  as  the  rattle  of  the  chaise.  loved  but  she  had  known  sir  s  too  long.  could  tell  her  nothing  new  of  the  wonders  of  his  presentation  knighthood;  and  his  civilities  were  worn  like  it  was  a  journey  of  only  four  and  they  began  it  early  as  to  be  in  gracechurch  street  by  noon.  as  they  drove  mr.  s  jane  was  at  a  room  window  their  arrival;  when  they  entered  the  passage  she  was  there  welcome  and  looking  earnestly  in  her  pleased  to  see  it  healthful  and  lovely  as  ever.  on  the  were  a  troop  of  little  boys  and  whose  eagerness  for  s  appearance  would  not  allow  them  to  wait  in  and  whose  as  they  had  not  seen  her  for  prevented  their  coming  lower.  all  was  joy  kindness.  the  day  passed  most  pleasantly  away;  the  morning  bustle  and  and  the  evening  at  one  of  the  elizabeth  then  contrived  to  sit  by  her  aunt.  their  first  was  her  sister;  and  she  was  more  grieved  than  astonished  to  in  reply  to  her  minute  that  though  jane  struggled  to  support  her  there  were  periods  dejection.  it  was  to  hope  that  they  not  continue  long.  mrs.  gardiner  gave  her  the  particulars  also  miss  s  visit  in  gracechurch  and  conversations  occurring  at  different  times  between  jane  which  proved  that  the  former  from  her  up  the  mrs.  gardiner  then  rallied  her  niece  on  s  complimented  her  on  bearing  it  so  but  my  dear  she  what  sort  of  girl  is  king?  i  should  be  sorry  to  think  our  friend  my  dear  what  is  the  difference  in  between  the  mercenary  and  the  prudent  motive?  where  discretion  and  avarice  begin?  last  christmas  you  were  of  his  marrying  because  it  would  be  imprudent;  and  because  he  is  trying  to  get  a  girl  with  only  ten  thousand  you  want  to  find  out  that  he  is  if  you  will  only  tell  me  what  sort  of  girl  miss  king  i  know  what  to  she  is  a  very  good  kind  of  i  believe.  i  know  no  harm  but  he  paid  her  not  the  smallest  attention  till  s  death  made  her  mistress  of  this  why  should  he?  if  it  were  not  allowable  for  him  to  gain  affections  because  i  had  no  what  occasion  could  there  for  making  love  to  a  girl  whom  he  did  not  care  and  who  equally  but  there  seems  an  indelicacy  in  directing  his  towards  her  so  soon  after  this  a  man  in  distressed  circumstances  has  not  time  for  all  elegant  decorums  which  other  people  may  observe.  if  not  object  to  why  should  not  objecting  does  not  justify  .  it  only  shows  being  deficient  in  something  sense  or  cried  have  it  as  you  choose.  shall  and  shall  be  that  is  what  i  do  choose.  i  should  be  you  to  think  ill  of  a  young  man  who  has  lived  so  long  oh!  if  that  is  i  have  a  very  poor  opinion  of  young  men  live  in  derbyshire;  and  their  intimate  friends  who  live  hertfordshire  are  not  much  better.  i  am  sick  of  them  all.  heaven!  i  am  going  morrow  where  i  shall  find  a  man  who  has  one  agreeable  who  has  neither  manner  nor  sense  recommend  him.  stupid  men  are  the  only  ones  worth  take  lizzy;  that  speech  savours  strongly  before  they  were  separated  by  the  conclusion  of  the  she  the  unexpected  happiness  of  an  invitation  to  accompany  her  and  aunt  in  a  tour  of  pleasure  which  they  proposed  taking  in  we  have  not  determined  how  far  it  shall  carry  said  to  the  no  scheme  could  have  been  more  agreeable  to  and  acceptance  of  the  invitation  was  most  ready  and  grateful.  dear  she  rapturously  what  delight!  felicity!  you  give  me  fresh  life  and  vigour.  adieu  disappointment  and  spleen.  what  are  young  men  to  rocks  mountains?  oh!  what  hours  of  transport  we  shall  spend!  and  we  it  shall  not  be  like  other  being  able  to  give  one  accurate  idea  of  anything.  we  where  we  have  we  recollect  what  we  have  seen.  and  rivers  shall  not  be  jumbled  together  in  imaginations;  nor  when  we  attempt  to  describe  any  will  we  begin  quarreling  about  its  relative  situation.  first  effusions  be  less  insupportable  than  those  of  generality  of  chapter  every  object  in  the  next  s  journey  was  new  and  interesting  elizabeth;  and  her  spirits  were  in  a  state  of  enjoyment;  for  had  seen  her  sister  looking  so  well  as  to  banish  all  fear  for  and  the  prospect  of  her  northern  tour  was  a  source  of  when  they  left  the  high  road  for  the  lane  to  every  was  in  search  of  the  and  every  turning  expected  bring  it  in  view.  the  palings  of  rosings  park  was  their  on  one  side.  elizabeth  smiled  at  the  recollection  of  all  that  had  heard  of  its  at  length  the  parsonage  was  discernible.  the  garden  sloping  the  the  house  standing  in  the  green  and  laurel  everything  declared  they  were  arriving.  mr.  and  charlotte  appeared  at  the  and  the  carriage  stopped  the  small  gate  which  led  by  a  short  gravel  walk  to  the  amidst  the  nods  and  smiles  of  the  whole  party.  in  a  moment  were  all  out  of  the  rejoicing  at  the  sight  of  each  mrs.  collins  welcomed  her  friend  with  the  liveliest  elizabeth  was  more  and  more  satisfied  with  coming  when  she  herself  so  affectionately  received.  she  saw  instantly  that  s  manners  were  not  altered  by  his  marriage;  his  civility  was  just  what  it  had  and  he  detained  her  minutes  at  the  gate  to  hear  and  satisfy  his  enquiries  after  her  family.  they  were  with  no  other  delay  than  his  out  the  neatness  of  the  taken  into  the  house;  and  soon  as  they  were  in  the  he  welcomed  them  a  second  with  ostentatious  formality  to  his  humble  and  repeated  all  his  s  offers  of  elizabeth  was  prepared  to  see  him  in  his  glory;  and  she  could  help  in  fancying  that  in  displaying  the  good  proportion  of  its  aspect  and  its  he  addressed  particularly  to  as  if  wishing  to  make  her  feel  what  she  lost  in  refusing  him.  but  though  everything  seemed  neat  she  was  not  able  to  gratify  him  by  any  sigh  and  rather  looked  with  wonder  at  her  friend  that  could  have  so  cheerful  an  air  with  such  a  companion.  when  collins  said  anything  of  which  his  wife  might  reasonably  which  certainly  was  not  she  turned  her  eye  on  charlotte.  once  or  twice  she  could  discern  faint  blush;  but  in  general  charlotte  wisely  did  not  hear.  sitting  long  enough  to  admire  every  article  of  furniture  in  from  the  sideboard  to  the  to  give  an  account  their  and  of  all  that  had  happened  in  collins  invited  them  to  take  a  stroll  in  the  which  large  and  well  laid  and  to  the  cultivation  of  which  attended  himself.  to  work  in  this  garden  was  one  of  his  respectable  pleasures;  and  elizabeth  admired  the  command  countenance  with  which  charlotte  talked  of  the  healthfulness  the  and  owned  she  encouraged  it  as  much  as  leading  the  way  through  every  walk  and  cross  scarcely  allowing  them  an  interval  to  utter  the  praises  he  every  view  was  pointed  out  with  a  minuteness  which  beauty  entirely  behind.  he  could  number  the  fields  in  and  could  tell  how  many  trees  there  were  in  the  distant  clump.  but  of  all  the  views  which  his  or  the  country  or  kingdom  could  none  were  to  be  compared  the  prospect  of  afforded  by  an  opening  in  the  trees  bordered  the  park  nearly  opposite  the  front  of  his  house.  it  a  handsome  modern  well  situated  on  rising  from  his  mr.  collins  would  have  led  them  round  his  meadows;  but  the  not  having  shoes  to  encounter  remains  of  a  white  turned  back;  and  while  sir  accompanied  charlotte  took  her  sister  and  friend  over  extremely  well  to  have  the  of  showing  it  without  her  s  help.  it  was  rather  but  well  built  and  convenient;  and  everything  was  fitted  up  arranged  with  a  neatness  and  consistency  of  which  elizabeth  charlotte  all  the  credit.  when  mr.  collins  could  be  there  was  really  an  air  of  great  comfort  and  s  evident  enjoyment  of  elizabeth  supposed  he  be  often  she  had  already  learnt  that  lady  catherine  was  still  in  country.  it  was  spoken  of  again  while  they  were  at  mr.  collins  joining  miss  you  will  have  the  honour  of  seeing  catherine  de  bourgh  on  the  ensuing  sunday  at  and  i  not  say  you  will  be  delighted  with  her.  she  is  all  affability  and  i  doubt  not  but  you  will  be  honoured  with  portion  of  her  notice  when  service  is  over.  i  have  scarcely  hesitation  in  saying  she  will  include  you  and  my  sister  maria  every  invitation  with  which  she  honours  us  during  your  stay  her  behaviour  to  my  dear  charlotte  is  charming.  we  dine  rosings  twice  every  and  are  never  allowed  to  walk  home.  s  carriage  is  regularly  ordered  for  us.  i  one  of  her  s  for  she  has  lady  catherine  is  a  very  sensible  woman  added  and  a  most  attentive  very  my  that  is  exactly  what  i  say.  she  is  the  of  woman  whom  one  cannot  regard  with  too  much  the  evening  was  spent  chiefly  in  talking  over  hertfordshire  and  telling  again  what  had  already  been  written;  and  when  in  the  solitude  of  her  had  meditate  upon  s  degree  of  to  her  address  in  and  composure  in  bearing  and  to  acknowledge  that  it  was  all  done  very  well.  had  also  to  anticipate  how  her  visit  would  the  quiet  of  their  usual  the  vexatious  interruptions  of  and  the  gaieties  of  their  intercourse  with  rosings.  lively  imagination  soon  settled  it  about  the  middle  of  the  next  as  she  was  in  her  room  ready  for  a  a  sudden  noise  below  seemed  to  speak  the  house  in  confusion;  after  listening  a  she  somebody  running  up  stairs  in  a  violent  and  calling  after  her.  she  opened  the  door  and  met  maria  in  the  breathless  with  cried  my  dear  eliza!  pray  make  haste  and  come  into  for  there  is  such  a  sight  to  be  seen!  i  will  tell  you  what  it  is.  make  and  come  down  this  elizabeth  asked  questions  in  vain;  maria  would  tell  her  and  down  they  ran  into  the  which  fronted  in  quest  of  this  wonder;  it  was  two  ladies  stopping  in  low  phaeton  at  the  garden  and  is  this  cried  elizabeth.  i  expected  at  least  that  pigs  were  got  into  the  and  here  is  nothing  but  catherine  and  her  la!  my  said  quite  shocked  at  the  it  not  lady  catherine.  the  old  lady  is  mrs.  who  with  them;  the  other  is  miss  de  bourgh.  only  look  at  her.  she  quite  a  little  creature.  who  would  have  thought  that  she  could  so  thin  and  she  is  abominably  rude  to  keep  charlotte  out  of  doors  in  this  wind.  why  does  she  not  come  charlotte  says  she  hardly  ever  does.  it  is  the  greatest  favours  when  miss  de  bourgh  comes  i  like  her  said  struck  with  other  she  looks  sickly  and  cross.  she  will  do  for  him  very  she  will  make  him  a  very  proper  mr.  collins  and  charlotte  were  both  standing  at  the  gate  conversation  with  the  ladies;  and  sir  to  high  was  stationed  in  the  in  contemplation  of  the  greatness  before  and  constantly  whenever  miss  de  bourgh  looked  that  at  length  there  was  nothing  more  to  be  said;  the  ladies  drove  and  the  others  returned  into  the  house.  mr.  collins  no  sooner  the  two  girls  than  he  began  to  congratulate  them  on  their  which  charlotte  explained  by  letting  them  know  that  whole  party  was  asked  to  dine  at  rosings  the  next  chapter  mr.  s  in  consequence  of  this  complete.  the  power  of  displaying  the  grandeur  of  his  to  his  wondering  and  of  letting  them  see  her  towards  himself  and  his  was  exactly  what  he  had  wished  and  that  an  opportunity  of  doing  it  should  be  given  so  such  an  instance  of  lady  s  as  he  not  how  to  admire  i  said  that  i  should  not  have  been  at  surprised  by  her  s  asking  us  on  sunday  to  drink  tea  spend  the  evening  at  rosings.  i  rather  from  knowledge  of  her  that  it  would  happen.  but  who  have  foreseen  such  an  attention  as  this?  who  could  have  that  we  should  receive  an  invitation  to  dine  there  including  the  whole  party)  so  after  your  i  am  the  less  surprised  at  what  has  replied  from  that  knowledge  of  what  the  manners  of  the  really  which  my  situation  in  life  has  allowed  me  to  about  the  such  instances  of  elegant  breeding  are  scarcely  anything  was  talked  of  the  whole  day  or  next  morning  their  visit  to  rosings.  mr.  collins  was  carefully  them  in  what  they  were  to  that  the  sight  of  such  so  many  and  so  splendid  a  might  not  overpower  when  the  ladies  were  separating  for  the  he  said  do  not  make  yourself  my  dear  about  your  lady  catherine  is  far  from  requiring  that  elegance  of  dress  in  which  becomes  herself  and  her  daughter.  i  would  advise  you  to  put  on  whatever  of  your  clothes  is  superior  to  the  is  no  occasion  for  anything  more.  lady  catherine  will  not  the  worse  of  you  for  being  simply  dressed.  she  likes  to  have  distinction  of  rank  while  they  were  he  came  two  or  three  times  to  different  to  recommend  their  being  as  catherine  very  much  objected  to  be  kept  waiting  for  her  such  formidable  accounts  of  her  and  her  manner  quite  frightened  maria  lucas  who  had  been  little  used  and  she  looked  forward  to  her  introduction  at  with  as  much  apprehension  as  her  father  had  done  to  presentation  at  st.  as  the  weather  was  they  had  a  pleasant  walk  of  about  half  mile  across  the  park.  every  park  has  its  beauty  and  prospects;  and  elizabeth  saw  much  to  be  pleased  though  could  not  be  in  such  raptures  as  mr.  collins  expected  the  to  and  was  but  slightly  affected  by  his  enumeration  the  windows  in  front  of  the  and  his  relation  of  what  glazing  altogether  had  originally  cost  sir  lewis  de  when  they  ascended  the  steps  to  the  s  alarm  was  moment  and  even  sir  william  did  not  look  calm.  s  courage  did  not  fail  her.  she  had  heard  of  lady  catherine  that  spoke  her  awful  from  any  talents  or  miraculous  and  the  mere  stateliness  of  or  rank  she  thought  she  could  witness  without  from  the  of  which  mr.  collins  pointed  with  rapturous  the  fine  proportion  and  the  finished  they  followed  the  servants  through  an  to  the  where  lady  her  and  mrs.  jenkinson  sitting.  her  with  great  arose  to  them;  and  as  mrs.  collins  had  settled  it  with  her  husband  the  office  of  introduction  should  be  it  was  performed  in  proper  without  any  of  those  apologies  and  thanks  which  would  have  thought  in  spite  of  having  been  at  st.  sir  william  was  completely  awed  by  the  grandeur  surrounding  that  he  had  just  courage  enough  to  make  a  very  low  and  take  his  without  saying  a  word;  and  his  frightened  almost  out  her  sat  on  the  edge  of  her  not  knowing  which  to  look.  elizabeth  found  herself  quite  equal  to  the  could  observe  the  three  ladies  before  her  composedly.  catherine  was  a  large  with  marked  which  might  once  have  been  handsome.  her  air  was  nor  was  her  manner  of  receiving  them  such  as  make  her  visitors  forget  their  inferior  rank.  she  was  rendered  formidable  by  silence;  but  whatever  she  said  was  in  so  authoritative  a  as  marked  her  brought  mr.  wickham  immediately  to  s  mind;  and  from  observation  of  the  day  she  believed  lady  catherine  be  exactly  what  he  after  examining  the  in  whose  countenance  deportment  she  soon  found  some  resemblance  of  mr.  turned  her  eyes  on  the  she  could  almost  have  joined  s  astonishment  at  her  being  so  thin  and  so  small.  there  neither  in  figure  nor  face  any  likeness  between  the  ladies.  de  bourgh  was  pale  and  sickly;  her  though  not  were  insignificant;  and  she  spoke  very  except  in  a  to  mrs.  in  whose  appearance  there  was  and  who  was  entirely  engaged  in  listening  to  what  and  placing  a  screen  in  the  proper  direction  before  after  sitting  a  few  they  were  all  sent  to  one  of  windows  to  admire  the  mr.  collins  attending  them  to  out  its  and  lady  catherine  kindly  informing  them  it  was  much  better  worth  looking  at  in  the  the  dinner  was  exceedingly  and  there  were  all  servants  and  all  the  articles  of  plate  which  mr.  collins  promised;  as  he  had  likewise  he  took  his  seat  the  bottom  of  the  by  her  s  and  looked  if  he  felt  that  life  could  furnish  nothing  greater.  he  and  and  praised  with  delighted  alacrity;  and  every  dish  first  by  him  and  then  by  sir  who  was  enough  recovered  to  echo  whatever  his  law  in  manner  which  elizabeth  wondered  lady  catherine  could  bear.  lady  catherine  seemed  gratified  by  their  excessive  and  gave  most  gracious  especially  when  any  dish  on  table  proved  a  novelty  to  them.  the  party  did  not  supply  conversation.  elizabeth  was  ready  to  speak  whenever  there  was  but  she  was  seated  between  charlotte  and  miss  the  former  of  whom  was  engaged  in  listening  to  and  the  latter  said  not  a  word  to  her  all  mrs.  jenkinson  was  chiefly  employed  in  watching  how  little  de  bourgh  pressing  her  to  try  some  other  and  she  was  indisposed.  maria  thought  speaking  out  of  the  and  the  gentlemen  did  nothing  but  eat  and  when  the  ladies  returned  to  the  there  was  little  be  done  but  to  hear  lady  catherine  which  she  did  any  intermission  till  coffee  came  delivering  her  opinion  every  subject  in  so  decisive  a  as  proved  that  she  was  used  to  have  her  judgement  controverted.  she  enquired  s  domestic  concerns  familiarly  and  gave  her  great  deal  of  advice  as  to  the  management  of  them  all;  told  how  everything  ought  to  be  regulated  in  so  small  a  family  and  instructed  her  as  to  the  care  of  her  cows  and  poultry.  elizabeth  found  that  nothing  was  beneath  this  s  which  could  furnish  her  with  an  occasion  dictating  to  others.  in  the  intervals  of  her  discourse  with  she  addressed  a  variety  of  questions  to  maria  but  especially  to  the  of  whose  connections  knew  the  and  who  she  observed  to  mrs.  collins  was  a  pretty  kind  of  girl.  she  asked  at  different  how  many  sisters  she  whether  they  were  older  or  younger  whether  any  of  them  were  likely  to  be  they  were  where  they  had  been  what  her  father  and  what  had  been  her  s  maiden  elizabeth  felt  all  the  impertinence  of  her  questions  but  them  very  composedly.  lady  catherine  then  your  s  estate  is  entailed  on  mr.  i  think.  your  turning  to  i  am  glad  of  it;  but  i  see  no  occasion  for  entailing  estates  from  the  female  line.  was  not  thought  necessary  in  sir  lewis  de  s  family.  do  play  and  miss  a  oh!  some  time  or  other  we  shall  be  happy  to  hear  you.  instrument  is  a  capital  probably  superior  you  shall  it  some  day.  do  your  sisters  play  and  one  of  them  why  did  not  you  all  learn?  you  ought  all  to  have  learned.  miss  webbs  all  and  their  father  has  not  so  good  an  as  yours.  do  you  not  at  none  of  not  that  is  very  strange.  but  i  suppose  you  had  no  opportunity.  mother  should  have  taken  you  to  town  every  spring  for  the  of  my  mother  would  have  had  no  but  my  father  has  your  governess  left  we  never  had  any  no  governess!  how  was  that  possible?  five  daughters  brought  at  home  without  a  governess!  i  never  heard  of  such  a  thing.  mother  must  have  been  quite  a  slave  to  your  elizabeth  could  hardly  help  smiling  as  she  assured  her  that  not  been  the  who  taught  you?  who  attended  to  you?  without  a  you  must  have  been  compared  with  some  i  believe  we  were;  but  such  of  as  wished  to  learn  never  wanted  the  means.  we  were  encouraged  to  and  had  all  the  masters  that  were  those  who  chose  to  be  certainly  no  doubt;  but  that  is  what  a  governess  will  and  i  had  known  your  i  should  have  advised  her  strenuously  to  engage  one.  i  always  say  that  nothing  is  to  done  in  education  without  steady  and  regular  nobody  but  a  governess  can  give  it.  it  is  wonderful  how  families  i  have  been  the  means  of  supplying  in  that  way.  i  always  glad  to  get  a  young  person  well  placed  out.  four  nieces  mrs.  jenkinson  are  most  delightfully  situated  through  my  and  it  was  but  the  other  day  that  i  recommended  another  who  was  merely  accidentally  mentioned  to  and  family  are  quite  delighted  with  her.  mrs.  did  i  tell  of  lady  s  calling  yesterday  to  thank  me?  she  finds  pope  a  treasure.  lady  said  you  have  given  me  are  any  of  your  younger  sisters  miss  all!  all  five  out  at  once?  very  odd!  and  you  only  second.  the  younger  ones  out  before  the  elder  ones  are  your  younger  sisters  must  be  very  my  youngest  is  not  sixteen.  perhaps  is  full  young  be  much  in  company.  but  i  think  it  would  be  hard  upon  younger  that  they  should  not  have  their  of  society  and  because  the  elder  may  not  have  means  or  inclination  to  marry  early.  the  born  has  as  good  right  to  the  pleasures  of  youth  as  the  first.  and  to  be  kept  on  a  motive!  i  think  it  would  not  be  very  likely  promote  sisterly  affection  or  delicacy  of  upon  my  said  her  you  give  your  opinion  decidedly  for  so  young  a  person.  what  is  your  with  three  younger  sisters  grown  replied  your  ladyship  can  hardly  expect  me  to  own  lady  catherine  seemed  quite  astonished  at  not  receiving  a  answer;  and  elizabeth  suspected  herself  to  be  the  first  who  had  ever  dared  to  trifle  with  so  much  dignified  you  cannot  be  more  than  i  am  therefore  you  not  conceal  your  i  am  not  when  the  gentlemen  had  joined  and  tea  was  tables  were  placed.  lady  sir  and  mr.  mrs.  collins  sat  down  to  quadrille;  and  as  miss  de  bourgh  to  play  at  the  two  girls  had  the  honour  of  mrs.  jenkinson  to  make  up  her  party.  their  table  superlatively  stupid.  scarcely  a  syllable  was  uttered  that  not  relate  to  the  except  when  mrs.  jenkinson  expressed  fears  of  miss  de  s  being  too  hot  or  too  or  too  much  or  too  little  light.  a  great  deal  more  passed  at  other  table.  lady  catherine  was  generally  stating  mistakes  of  the  three  or  relating  some  anecdote  herself.  mr.  collins  was  employed  in  agreeing  to  everything  ladyship  thanking  her  for  every  fish  he  apologising  if  he  thought  he  won  too  many.  sir  william  did  say  much.  he  was  storing  his  memory  with  anecdotes  and  when  lady  catherine  and  her  daughter  had  played  as  long  as  the  tables  were  broken  the  carriage  was  offered  mrs.  gratefully  accepted  and  immediately  ordered.  party  then  gathered  round  the  fire  to  hear  lady  determine  what  weather  they  were  to  have  on  the  morrow.  these  instructions  they  were  summoned  by  the  arrival  of  coach;  and  with  many  speeches  of  thankfulness  on  mr.  side  and  as  many  bows  on  sir  s  they  departed.  as  soon  they  had  driven  from  the  elizabeth  was  called  on  by  cousin  to  give  her  opinion  of  all  that  she  had  seen  at  for  s  she  made  more  favourable  than  really  was.  but  her  though  costing  her  could  by  no  means  satisfy  mr.  and  he  was  soon  obliged  to  take  her  s  praise  into  his  own  chapter  sir  william  stayed  only  a  week  at  but  his  visit  long  enough  to  convince  him  of  his  s  being  comfortably  and  of  her  possessing  such  a  husband  such  a  neighbour  as  were  not  often  met  with.  while  sir  was  with  mr.  collins  devoted  his  morning  to  driving  him  in  his  and  showing  him  the  country;  but  when  he  went  the  whole  family  returned  to  their  usual  elizabeth  was  thankful  to  find  that  they  did  not  see  more  of  cousin  by  the  for  the  chief  of  the  time  breakfast  and  dinner  was  now  passed  by  him  either  at  work  in  garden  or  in  reading  and  and  looking  out  of  the  in  his  own  which  fronted  the  road.  the  room  in  the  ladies  sat  was  backwards.  elizabeth  had  at  first  wondered  that  charlotte  should  not  prefer  the  parlour  common  use;  it  was  a  better  sized  and  had  a  more  aspect;  but  she  soon  saw  that  her  friend  had  an  excellent  for  what  she  for  mr.  collins  would  undoubtedly  have  much  less  in  his  own  had  they  sat  in  one  lively;  and  she  gave  charlotte  credit  for  the  from  the  room  they  could  distinguish  nothing  in  the  and  were  indebted  to  mr.  collins  for  the  knowledge  of  carriages  went  and  how  often  especially  miss  de  drove  by  in  her  which  he  never  failed  coming  to  them  though  it  happened  almost  every  day.  she  unfrequently  stopped  at  the  and  had  a  few  conversation  with  but  was  scarcely  ever  prevailed  to  get  very  few  days  passed  in  which  mr.  collins  did  not  walk  and  not  many  in  which  his  wife  did  not  think  necessary  to  go  likewise;  and  till  elizabeth  recollected  there  might  be  other  family  livings  to  be  disposed  she  not  understand  the  sacrifice  of  so  many  hours.  now  and  then  were  honoured  with  a  call  from  her  and  nothing  her  observation  that  was  passing  in  the  room  during  these  she  examined  into  their  looked  at  their  advised  them  to  do  it  differently;  found  fault  with  arrangement  of  the  furniture;  or  detected  the  housemaid  negligence;  and  if  she  accepted  any  seemed  to  do  only  for  the  sake  of  finding  out  that  mrs.  s  joints  meat  were  too  large  for  her  elizabeth  soon  that  though  this  great  lady  was  not  the  commission  of  the  peace  of  the  she  was  a  most  magistrate  in  her  own  the  minutest  concerns  of  which  carried  to  her  by  mr.  collins;  and  whenever  any  of  the  were  disposed  to  be  or  too  sallied  forth  into  the  village  to  settle  their  silence  their  and  scold  them  into  harmony  and  the  entertainment  of  dining  at  rosings  was  repeated  about  twice  week;  allowing  for  the  loss  of  sir  and  there  only  one  table  in  the  every  such  entertainment  the  counterpart  of  the  first.  their  other  engagements  were  as  the  style  of  living  in  the  neighbourhood  in  general  was  mr.  s  reach.  was  no  evil  to  upon  the  whole  she  spent  her  time  comfortably  enough;  there  hours  of  pleasant  conversation  with  and  weather  was  so  fine  for  the  time  of  year  that  she  had  often  enjoyment  out  of  doors.  her  favourite  and  where  frequently  went  while  the  others  were  calling  on  lady  was  along  the  open  grove  which  edged  that  side  of  the  there  was  a  nice  sheltered  which  no  one  seemed  to  value  and  where  she  felt  beyond  the  reach  of  lady  in  this  quiet  the  first  fortnight  of  her  visit  soon  away.  easter  was  and  the  week  preceding  it  was  bring  an  addition  to  the  family  at  which  in  so  small  circle  must  be  important.  elizabeth  had  heard  soon  after  arrival  that  mr.  darcy  was  expected  there  in  the  course  of  a  and  though  there  were  not  many  of  her  acquaintances  she  did  not  his  coming  would  furnish  one  new  to  look  at  in  their  rosings  and  she  might  be  in  seeing  how  hopeless  miss  s  designs  on  him  by  behaviour  to  his  for  whom  he  was  evidently  destined  lady  who  talked  of  his  coming  with  the  spoke  of  him  in  terms  of  the  highest  and  seemed  almost  angry  to  find  that  he  had  already  frequently  seen  by  miss  lucas  and  his  arrival  was  soon  known  at  the  parsonage;  for  mr.  collins  walking  the  whole  morning  within  view  of  the  lodges  opening  hunsford  in  order  to  have  the  earliest  assurance  of  after  making  his  bow  as  the  carriage  turned  into  the  hurried  home  with  the  great  intelligence.  on  the  morning  he  hastened  to  rosings  to  pay  his  respects.  there  two  nephews  of  lady  catherine  to  require  for  mr.  darcy  brought  with  him  a  colonel  the  younger  son  of  uncle  lord  to  the  great  surprise  of  all  the  mr.  collins  the  gentlemen  accompanied  him.  had  seen  them  from  her  s  crossing  the  immediately  running  into  the  told  the  girls  what  an  they  might  i  may  thank  for  this  piece  of  civility.  mr.  would  never  have  come  so  soon  to  wait  upon  elizabeth  had  scarcely  time  to  disclaim  all  right  to  before  their  approach  was  announced  by  the  and  shortly  afterwards  the  three  gentlemen  entered  the  colonel  who  led  the  was  about  but  in  person  and  address  most  truly  the  gentleman.  darcy  looked  just  as  he  had  been  used  to  look  paid  his  with  his  usual  mrs.  and  whatever  might  be  his  feelings  toward  met  her  with  every  appearance  of  composure.  merely  curtseyed  to  him  without  saying  a  colonel  fitzwilliam  entered  into  conversation  directly  with  readiness  and  ease  of  a  bred  and  talked  pleasantly;  but  his  after  having  addressed  a  observation  on  the  house  and  garden  to  mrs.  sat  for  time  without  speaking  to  anybody.  at  civility  was  so  far  awakened  as  to  enquire  of  elizabeth  after  health  of  her  family.  she  answered  him  in  the  usual  after  a  s  my  eldest  sister  has  been  in  town  these  three  months.  have  never  happened  to  see  her  she  was  perfectly  sensible  that  he  never  had;  but  she  wished  see  whether  he  would  betray  any  consciousness  of  what  had  between  the  bingleys  and  and  she  thought  he  looked  a  confused  as  he  answered  that  he  had  never  been  so  fortunate  as  meet  miss  bennet.  the  subject  was  pursued  no  and  gentlemen  soon  afterwards  went  chapter  colonel  s  manners  were  very  much  admired  at  and  the  ladies  all  felt  that  he  must  add  to  the  pleasures  of  their  engagements  at  rosings.  it  was  before  they  received  any  invitation  while  there  were  visitors  in  the  they  could  not  necessary;  and  it  was  not  till  almost  a  week  the  s  that  they  were  honoured  by  such  and  then  they  were  merely  asked  on  leaving  church  come  there  in  the  evening.  for  the  last  week  they  had  seen  little  of  lady  catherine  or  her  daughter.  colonel  fitzwilliam  called  at  the  parsonage  more  than  once  during  the  but  darcy  they  had  seen  only  at  the  invitation  was  accepted  of  and  at  a  proper  hour  joined  the  party  in  lady  s  room.  her  received  them  but  it  was  plain  that  their  company  was  no  means  so  acceptable  as  when  she  could  get  nobody  else;  and  in  almost  engrossed  by  her  speaking  to  especially  to  much  more  than  to  any  other  person  in  colonel  fitzwilliam  seemed  really  glad  to  see  them;  anything  a  welcome  relief  to  him  at  rosings;  and  mrs.  s  friend  had  moreover  caught  his  fancy  very  much.  he  now  himself  by  and  talked  so  agreeably  of  kent  of  travelling  and  staying  at  of  new  and  that  elizabeth  had  never  been  half  so  well  in  that  room  before;  and  they  conversed  with  so  much  spirit  as  to  draw  the  attention  of  lady  catherine  as  as  of  mr.  darcy.  eyes  had  been  soon  and  repeatedly  towards  them  with  a  look  of  curiosity;  and  that  her  after  a  shared  the  was  more  openly  for  she  did  not  scruple  to  call  what  is  that  you  are  fitzwilliam?  what  is  it  you  talking  of?  what  are  you  telling  miss  bennet?  let  me  hear  what  we  are  speaking  of  said  when  no  longer  to  avoid  a  of  music!  then  pray  speak  aloud.  it  is  of  all  subjects  delight.  i  must  have  my  share  in  the  conversation  if  you  speaking  of  music.  there  are  few  people  in  i  who  have  more  true  enjoyment  of  music  than  or  a  natural  taste.  if  i  had  ever  i  should  have  been  a  proficient.  and  so  would  if  her  health  had  allowed  her  apply.  i  am  confident  that  she  would  have  performed  how  does  georgiana  get  mr.  darcy  spoke  with  affectionate  praise  of  his  i  am  very  glad  to  hear  such  a  good  account  of  said  catherine;  and  pray  tell  her  from  that  she  cannot  expect  excel  if  she  does  not  practice  a  good  i  assure  he  that  she  does  not  need  advice.  she  practises  very  so  much  the  better.  it  cannot  be  done  too  much;  and  when  i  write  to  i  shall  charge  her  not  to  neglect  it  on  account.  i  often  tell  young  ladies  that  no  excellence  in  music  to  be  acquired  without  constant  practice.  i  have  told  miss  several  that  she  will  never  play  really  well  unless  practises  more;  and  though  mrs.  collins  has  no  she  very  as  i  have  often  told  to  come  to  rosings  and  play  on  the  pianoforte  in  mrs.  s  room.  would  be  in  s  you  in  that  part  of  the  mr.  darcy  looked  a  little  ashamed  of  his  s  made  no  when  coffee  was  colonel  fitzwilliam  reminded  elizabeth  having  promised  to  play  to  him;  and  she  sat  down  directly  to  instrument.  he  drew  a  chair  near  her.  lady  catherine  listened  half  a  and  then  as  to  her  other  till  the  latter  walked  away  from  and  making  with  his  deliberation  towards  the  pianoforte  stationed  himself  so  as  command  a  full  view  of  the  fair  s  elizabeth  saw  what  he  was  and  at  the  first  turned  to  him  with  an  arch  and  you  mean  to  frighten  mr.  by  coming  in  all  this  to  hear  me?  i  will  not  be  alarmed  though  your  sister  so  well.  there  is  a  stubbornness  about  me  that  never  can  bear  be  frightened  at  the  will  of  others.  my  courage  always  rises  every  attempt  to  intimidate  i  shall  not  say  you  are  he  because  could  not  really  believe  me  to  entertain  any  design  of  you;  and  i  have  had  the  pleasure  of  your  acquaintance  long  to  know  that  you  find  great  enjoyment  in  occasionally  opinions  which  in  fact  are  not  your  elizabeth  laughed  heartily  at  this  picture  of  and  to  colonel  your  cousin  will  give  you  a  very  notion  of  and  teach  you  not  to  believe  a  word  i  say.  i  particularly  unlucky  in  meeting  with  a  person  so  able  to  my  real  in  a  part  of  the  world  where  i  had  hoped  pass  myself  off  with  some  degree  of  credit.  mr.  is  very  ungenerous  in  you  to  mention  all  that  you  knew  to  disadvantage  in  give  me  leave  to  impolitic  for  it  is  provoking  me  to  and  things  may  come  out  as  will  shock  your  relations  to  i  am  not  afraid  of  said  pray  let  me  hear  what  you  have  to  accuse  him  cried  fitzwilliam.  i  should  like  to  know  how  he  behaves  you  shall  hear  but  prepare  yourself  for  something  dreadful.  the  first  time  of  my  ever  seeing  him  in  you  must  was  at  a  and  at  this  what  do  you  he  did?  he  danced  only  four  though  gentlemen  were  to  my  certain  more  than  one  young  lady  sitting  down  in  want  of  a  partner.  mr.  you  cannot  deny  i  had  not  at  that  time  the  honour  of  knowing  any  lady  in  assembly  beyond  my  own  true;  and  nobody  can  ever  be  introduced  in  a  room.  colonel  what  do  i  play  next?  my  fingers  wait  said  i  should  have  judged  had  i  an  introduction;  but  i  am  qualified  to  recommend  myself  shall  we  ask  your  cousin  the  reason  of  said  still  addressing  colonel  fitzwilliam.  shall  we  ask  him  why  a  of  sense  and  and  who  has  lived  in  the  is  qualified  to  recommend  himself  to  i  can  answer  your  said  without  to  him.  it  is  because  he  will  not  give  himself  the  i  certainly  have  not  the  talent  which  some  people  of  conversing  easily  with  those  i  have  never  seen  i  cannot  catch  their  tone  of  or  appear  in  their  as  i  often  see  my  said  do  not  move  over  this  in  the  masterly  manner  which  i  see  so  many  s  do.  they  not  the  same  force  or  and  do  not  produce  the  expression.  but  then  i  have  always  supposed  it  to  be  my  because  i  will  not  take  the  trouble  of  practising.  it  not  that  i  do  not  believe  fingers  as  capable  as  any  s  of  superior  darcy  smiled  and  you  are  perfectly  right.  you  employed  your  time  much  better.  no  one  admitted  to  the  of  hearing  you  can  think  anything  wanting.  we  neither  of  perform  to  here  they  were  interrupted  by  lady  who  called  out  know  what  they  were  talking  of.  elizabeth  immediately  playing  again.  lady  catherine  after  for  a  few  said  to  miss  bennet  would  not  play  at  all  amiss  if  she  practised  and  could  have  the  advantage  of  a  london  master.  she  has  a  good  notion  of  though  her  taste  is  not  equal  s.  anne  would  have  been  a  delightful  had  health  allowed  her  to  elizabeth  looked  at  darcy  to  see  how  cordially  he  assented  to  s  praise;  but  neither  at  that  moment  nor  at  any  could  she  discern  any  symptom  of  love;  and  from  the  whole  of  behaviour  to  miss  de  bourgh  she  derived  this  comfort  for  that  he  might  have  been  just  as  likely  to  marry  had  she  been  his  lady  catherine  continued  her  remarks  on  s  mixing  with  them  many  instructions  on  execution  and  elizabeth  received  them  with  all  the  forbearance  of  at  the  request  of  the  remained  at  the  till  her  s  carriage  was  ready  to  take  them  all  chapter  elizabeth  was  sitting  by  herself  the  next  and  writing  jane  while  mrs.  collins  and  maria  were  gone  on  business  into  when  she  was  startled  by  a  ring  at  the  the  signal  of  a  visitor.  as  she  had  heard  no  she  thought  not  unlikely  to  be  lady  and  under  that  was  putting  away  her  finished  letter  that  she  might  all  impertinent  when  the  door  to  her  great  mr.  and  mr.  darcy  entered  the  he  seemed  astonished  too  on  finding  her  and  apologised  his  intrusion  by  letting  her  know  that  he  had  understood  all  ladies  were  to  be  they  then  sat  and  when  her  enquiries  after  rosings  seemed  in  danger  of  sinking  into  total  silence.  it  absolutely  to  think  of  and  this  emergence  recollecting  she  had  seen  him  last  and  feeling  curious  to  know  what  he  would  say  the  subject  of  their  hasty  she  how  very  suddenly  you  all  quitted  netherfield  last  darcy!  it  must  have  been  a  most  agreeable  surprise  to  mr.  to  see  you  all  after  him  so  soon;  if  i  recollect  went  but  the  day  before.  he  and  his  sisters  were  i  when  you  left  perfectly  i  thank  she  found  that  she  was  to  receive  no  other  after  short  pause  i  think  i  have  understood  that  mr.  bingley  has  not  much  idea  ever  returning  to  netherfield  i  have  never  heard  him  say  so;  but  it  is  probable  that  he  spend  very  little  of  his  time  there  in  the  future.  he  has  and  is  at  a  time  of  life  when  friends  and  are  continually  if  he  means  to  be  but  little  at  it  would  be  for  the  neighbourhood  that  he  should  give  up  the  place  for  then  we  might  possibly  get  a  settled  family  there.  mr.  bingley  did  not  take  the  house  so  much  for  convenience  of  the  neighbourhood  as  for  his  and  we  expect  him  to  keep  it  or  quit  it  on  the  same  i  should  not  be  said  if  he  were  to  give  up  as  soon  as  any  eligible  purchase  elizabeth  made  no  answer.  she  was  afraid  of  talking  longer  of  friend;  having  nothing  else  to  was  now  determined  leave  the  trouble  of  finding  a  subject  to  he  took  the  and  soon  began  this  seems  a  comfortable  house.  lady  i  did  a  great  deal  it  when  mr.  collins  first  came  to  i  believe  she  and  i  am  sure  she  could  not  have  bestowed  kindness  on  a  more  grateful  mr.  collins  appears  to  be  very  fortunate  in  his  choice  of  his  friends  may  well  rejoice  in  his  having  met  one  of  the  very  few  sensible  women  who  would  have  accepted  or  have  made  him  happy  if  they  had.  my  friend  has  an  though  i  am  not  certain  that  i  consider  marrying  mr.  collins  as  the  wisest  thing  she  ever  did.  she  perfectly  and  in  a  prudential  light  it  certainly  a  very  good  match  for  it  must  be  very  agreeable  for  her  to  be  settled  within  so  easy  distance  of  her  own  family  and  an  easy  do  you  call  it?  it  is  nearly  fifty  and  what  is  fifty  miles  of  good  road?  little  more  than  half  s  journey.  i  call  it  a  very  easy  i  should  never  have  considered  the  distance  as  one  of  of  the  cried  elizabeth.  i  should  never  said  mrs.  collins  was  settled  her  it  is  a  proof  of  your  own  attachment  to  hertfordshire.  beyond  the  very  neighbourhood  of  i  appear  as  he  spoke  there  was  a  sort  of  smile  which  elizabeth  fancied  understood;  he  must  be  supposing  her  to  be  thinking  of  jane  and  she  blushed  as  she  i  do  not  mean  to  say  that  a  woman  may  not  be  settled  too  her  family.  the  far  and  the  near  must  be  and  depend  many  varying  circumstances.  where  there  is  fortune  to  make  expenses  of  travelling  distance  becomes  no  evil.  that  is  not  the  case  .  mr.  and  mrs.  collins  have  comfortable  but  not  such  a  one  as  will  allow  of  and  i  am  persuaded  my  friend  would  not  call  her  family  under  less  than  the  present  mr.  darcy  drew  his  chair  a  little  towards  and  cannot  have  a  right  to  such  very  strong  local  attachment.  cannot  have  been  always  at  elizabeth  looked  surprised.  the  gentleman  experienced  some  of  feeling;  he  drew  back  his  took  a  newspaper  from  and  glancing  over  in  a  colder  are  you  pleased  with  a  short  dialogue  on  the  subject  of  the  country  on  side  calm  and  and  soon  put  an  end  to  by  the  entrance  charlotte  and  her  just  returned  from  her  walk.  surprised  them.  mr.  darcy  related  the  mistake  had  occasioned  his  intruding  on  miss  and  after  sitting  few  minutes  longer  without  saying  much  to  went  what  can  be  the  meaning  of  said  as  soon  as  was  gone.  my  he  must  be  in  love  with  or  would  never  have  called  on  us  in  this  familiar  but  when  elizabeth  told  of  his  it  did  not  seem  even  to  s  to  be  the  case;  and  various  they  could  at  last  only  suppose  his  visit  proceed  from  the  difficulty  of  finding  anything  to  which  the  more  probable  from  the  time  of  year.  all  field  sports  over.  within  doors  there  was  lady  and  but  gentlemen  cannot  always  be  within  doors;  in  the  nearness  of  the  or  the  pleasantness  of  the  to  or  of  the  people  who  lived  in  the  two  cousins  found  temptation  from  this  period  of  walking  thither  almost  every  they  called  at  various  times  of  the  sometimes  and  now  and  then  accompanied  their  aunt.  it  was  plain  to  them  all  that  colonel  came  because  he  had  pleasure  in  their  a  persuasion  of  course  recommended  him  still  more;  and  elizabeth  was  by  her  own  satisfaction  in  being  with  as  well  as  by  evident  admiration  of  of  her  former  favourite  wickham;  and  in  comparing  she  saw  there  was  captivating  softness  in  colonel  s  believed  he  might  have  the  best  informed  but  why  mr.  darcy  came  so  often  to  the  it  was  difficult  to  understand.  it  could  not  be  for  as  frequently  sat  there  ten  minutes  together  without  opening  lips;  and  when  he  did  it  seemed  the  effect  of  rather  than  of  a  sacrifice  to  not  a  pleasure  himself.  he  seldom  appeared  really  animated.  mrs.  collins  not  what  to  make  of  him.  colonel  s  laughing  at  his  proved  that  he  was  which  her  own  knowledge  of  him  could  not  have  her;  and  as  she  would  liked  to  have  believed  this  change  effect  of  and  the  object  of  that  love  her  friend  set  herself  seriously  to  work  to  find  it  out.  she  watched  whenever  they  were  at  and  whenever  he  came  to  but  without  much  success.  he  certainly  looked  at  her  friend  great  but  the  expression  of  that  look  was  disputable.  was  an  steadfast  but  she  often  doubted  there  were  much  admiration  in  and  sometimes  it  seemed  but  absence  of  she  had  once  or  twice  suggested  to  elizabeth  the  possibility  his  being  partial  to  but  elizabeth  always  laughed  at  idea;  and  mrs.  collins  did  not  think  it  right  to  press  from  the  danger  of  raising  expectations  which  might  end  in  disappointment;  for  in  her  opinion  it  admitted  not  of  that  all  her  s  dislike  would  if  she  suppose  him  to  be  in  her  in  her  kind  schemes  for  she  sometimes  planned  marrying  colonel  fitzwilliam.  he  was  beyond  comparison  the  pleasant  man;  he  certainly  admired  and  his  situation  in  was  most  eligible;  to  counterbalance  these  darcy  had  considerable  patronage  in  the  and  his  could  have  none  at  chapter  more  than  once  did  in  her  ramble  within  the  unexpectedly  meet  mr.  darcy.  she  felt  all  the  perverseness  of  mischance  that  should  bring  him  where  no  one  else  was  to  prevent  its  ever  happening  took  care  to  inform  at  first  that  it  was  a  favourite  haunt  of  hers.  how  it  occur  a  second  was  very  odd!  yet  it  even  a  third.  it  seemed  like  wilful  or  a  for  on  these  occasions  it  was  not  merely  a  few  enquiries  and  an  awkward  pause  and  then  but  he  thought  it  necessary  to  turn  back  and  walk  with  her.  he  said  a  great  nor  did  she  give  herself  the  trouble  talking  or  of  listening  much;  but  it  struck  her  in  the  course  their  third  rencontre  that  he  was  asking  some  odd  about  her  pleasure  in  being  at  her  love  solitary  and  her  opinion  of  mr.  and  mrs.  happiness;  and  that  in  speaking  of  rosings  and  her  not  understanding  the  he  seemed  to  expect  that  whenever  came  into  kent  again  she  would  be  staying  too.  his  seemed  to  imply  it.  could  he  have  colonel  fitzwilliam  in  thoughts?  she  if  he  meant  he  must  mean  allusion  to  what  might  arise  in  that  quarter.  it  distressed  her  and  she  was  quite  glad  to  find  herself  at  the  gate  in  pales  opposite  the  she  was  engaged  one  day  as  she  in  perusing  s  and  dwelling  on  some  passages  which  proved  that  jane  not  written  in  instead  of  being  again  surprised  mr.  she  saw  on  looking  up  that  colonel  fitzwilliam  meeting  her.  putting  away  the  letter  immediately  and  forcing  she  i  did  not  know  before  that  you  ever  walked  this  i  have  been  making  the  tour  of  the  he  as  generally  do  every  and  intend  to  close  it  with  a  call  the  parsonage.  are  you  going  much  i  should  have  turned  in  a  and  accordingly  she  did  and  they  walked  towards  parsonage  do  you  certainly  leave  kent  on  said  if  darcy  does  not  put  it  off  again.  but  i  am  at  disposal.  he  arranges  the  business  just  as  he  and  if  not  able  to  please  himself  in  the  he  has  least  pleasure  in  the  great  power  of  choice.  i  do  not  anybody  who  seems  more  to  enjoy  the  power  of  doing  what  he  than  mr.  he  likes  to  have  his  own  way  very  replied  fitzwilliam.  but  so  we  all  do.  it  is  only  that  he  has  means  of  having  it  than  many  because  he  is  and  others  are  poor.  i  speak  feelingly.  a  younger  you  be  inured  to  denial  and  in  my  the  younger  son  of  an  earl  can  know  very  of  either.  now  what  have  you  ever  known  of  and  dependence?  when  have  you  been  prevented  by  want  of  from  going  wherever  you  or  procuring  anything  you  had  fancy  these  are  home  and  perhaps  i  cannot  say  that  i  experienced  many  hardships  of  that  nature.  but  in  matters  greater  i  may  suffer  from  want  of  money.  younger  cannot  marry  where  they  unless  where  they  like  women  of  which  i  think  they  often  our  habits  of  expense  make  us  too  and  there  are  many  in  my  rank  of  life  who  can  afford  to  marry  without  attention  to  is  thought  meant  for  and  she  coloured  the  idea;  recovering  said  in  a  lively  what  is  the  usual  price  of  an  s  younger  son?  the  elder  brother  is  very  i  suppose  you  would  not  above  fifty  thousand  he  answered  her  in  the  same  and  the  subject  dropped.  interrupt  a  silence  which  might  make  him  fancy  her  affected  what  had  she  soon  afterwards  i  imagine  your  cousin  brought  you  down  with  him  chiefly  for  sake  of  having  someone  at  his  disposal.  i  wonder  he  does  to  secure  a  lasting  convenience  of  that  kind.  his  sister  does  as  well  for  the  as  she  under  his  sole  he  may  do  what  he  likes  with  said  colonel  that  is  an  advantage  which  must  divide  with  me.  i  am  joined  with  him  in  the  guardianship  miss  are  you  indeed?  and  pray  what  sort  of  guardians  do  you  does  your  charge  give  you  much  trouble?  young  ladies  of  her  are  sometimes  a  little  difficult  to  and  if  she  has  true  darcy  she  may  like  to  have  her  own  as  she  spoke  she  observed  him  looking  at  her  earnestly;  and  manner  in  which  he  immediately  asked  her  why  she  supposed  darcy  likely  to  give  them  any  convinced  her  that  had  somehow  or  other  got  pretty  near  the  truth.  she  you  need  not  be  frightened.  i  never  heard  any  harm  of  her;  and  dare  say  she  is  one  of  the  most  tractable  creatures  in  the  she  is  a  very  great  favourite  with  some  ladies  of  mrs.  hurst  and  miss  bingley.  i  think  i  have  you  say  that  you  know  i  know  them  a  little.  their  brother  is  a  pleasant  he  is  a  great  friend  of  oh!  said  elizabeth  drily;  mr.  darcy  is  uncommonly  kind  mr.  and  takes  a  prodigious  deal  of  care  of  care  of  him!  i  really  believe  darcy  take  care  of  in  those  points  where  he  most  wants  care.  from  something  that  told  me  in  our  journey  i  have  reason  to  think  very  much  indebted  to  him.  but  i  ought  to  beg  his  for  have  no  right  to  suppose  that  bingley  was  the  person  meant.  was  all  what  is  it  you  it  is  a  circumstance  which  darcy  could  not  wish  to  be  because  if  it  were  to  get  round  to  the  s  would  be  an  unpleasant  you  may  depend  upon  my  not  mentioning  and  remember  that  i  have  not  much  reason  for  supposing  it  to  bingley.  what  he  told  me  was  merely  this:  that  he  himself  on  having  lately  saved  a  friend  from  the  of  a  most  imprudent  but  without  mentioning  names  or  other  and  i  only  suspected  it  to  be  bingley  believing  him  the  kind  of  young  man  to  get  into  a  scrape  of  and  from  knowing  them  to  have  been  together  the  whole  last  did  mr.  darcy  give  you  reasons  for  this  i  understood  that  there  were  some  very  strong  objections  the  and  what  arts  did  he  use  to  separate  he  did  not  talk  to  me  of  his  own  said  smiling.  he  only  told  me  what  i  have  now  told  elizabeth  made  no  and  walked  her  heart  swelling  indignation.  after  watching  her  a  fitzwilliam  asked  why  she  was  so  i  am  thinking  of  what  you  have  been  telling  said  she.  s  conduct  does  not  suit  my  feelings.  why  was  he  to  be  you  are  rather  disposed  to  call  his  interference  i  do  not  see  what  right  mr.  darcy  had  to  decide  on  the  of  his  s  or  upon  his  own  he  was  to  determine  and  direct  in  what  manner  his  was  to  be  happy.  she  recollecting  we  know  none  of  the  it  is  not  fair  to  condemn  it  is  not  to  be  supposed  that  there  was  much  affection  in  that  is  not  an  unnatural  said  but  it  a  lessening  of  the  honour  of  my  s  triumph  very  this  was  spoken  jestingly;  but  it  appeared  to  her  so  just  picture  of  mr.  that  she  would  not  trust  herself  with  and  abruptly  changing  the  conversation  on  indifferent  matters  until  they  reached  the  parsonage.  shut  into  her  own  as  soon  as  their  visitor  left  could  think  without  interruption  of  all  that  she  had  heard.  was  not  to  be  supposed  that  any  other  people  could  be  meant  those  with  whom  she  was  connected.  there  could  not  exist  in  world  men  over  whom  mr.  darcy  could  have  such  influence.  that  he  had  been  concerned  in  the  measures  taken  separate  bingley  and  jane  she  had  never  doubted;  but  she  always  attributed  to  miss  bingley  the  principal  design  arrangement  of  them.  if  his  own  did  not  was  the  his  pride  and  caprice  were  the  all  that  jane  had  and  still  continued  to  suffer.  he  ruined  for  a  while  every  hope  of  happiness  for  the  generous  heart  in  the  world;  and  no  one  could  how  lasting  an  evil  he  might  have  there  were  some  very  strong  objections  against  the  colonel  s  words;  and  those  strong  objections  her  having  one  uncle  who  was  a  country  another  who  was  in  business  in  to  jane  she  there  could  be  no  of  objection;  all  loveliness  and  goodness  as  she  understanding  her  mind  and  her  captivating.  neither  could  anything  be  urged  against  my  though  with  some  has  abilities  mr.  himself  need  not  and  respectability  which  he  probably  never  when  she  thought  of  her  confidence  gave  way  a  little;  but  she  would  not  allow  that  objections  had  material  weight  with  mr.  she  was  would  receive  a  deeper  wound  from  want  of  importance  in  his  s  than  from  want  of  sense;  and  she  was  quite  at  that  he  been  partly  governed  by  this  worst  kind  of  and  partly  the  wish  of  retaining  mr.  bingley  for  his  the  agitation  and  tears  which  the  subject  brought  a  headache;  and  it  grew  so  much  worse  towards  the  added  to  her  unwillingness  to  see  mr.  it  determined  not  to  attend  her  cousins  to  where  they  were  engaged  drink  tea.  mrs.  seeing  that  she  was  really  not  press  her  to  go  and  as  much  as  possible  prevented  her  from  pressing  her;  but  mr.  collins  could  not  conceal  apprehension  of  lady  s  being  rather  displeased  by  staying  at  chapter  when  they  were  as  if  intending  to  herself  as  much  as  possible  against  mr.  chose  for  employment  the  examination  of  all  the  letters  which  jane  written  to  her  since  her  being  in  kent.  they  contained  no  nor  was  there  any  revival  of  past  or  communication  of  present  suffering.  but  in  and  in  every  line  of  there  was  a  want  of  that  cheerfulness  had  been  used  to  characterise  her  and  from  the  serenity  of  a  mind  at  ease  with  itself  and  disposed  towards  had  been  scarcely  ever  elizabeth  noticed  every  sentence  conveying  the  idea  with  an  attention  which  it  had  hardly  received  on  first  perusal.  mr.  s  shameful  boast  of  what  misery  he  been  able  to  gave  her  a  keener  sense  of  her  sufferings.  it  was  some  consolation  to  think  that  his  visit  rosings  was  to  end  on  the  day  after  the  a  that  in  less  than  a  fortnight  she  should  herself  be  jane  and  enabled  to  contribute  to  the  recovery  of  by  all  that  affection  could  she  could  not  think  of  s  leaving  kent  without  that  his  cousin  was  to  go  with  him;  but  colonel  fitzwilliam  made  it  clear  that  he  had  no  intentions  at  and  agreeable  he  she  did  not  mean  to  be  unhappy  about  while  settling  this  she  was  suddenly  roused  by  the  of  the  and  her  spirits  were  a  little  fluttered  by  idea  of  its  being  colonel  fitzwilliam  who  had  before  called  late  in  the  and  might  now  come  to  particularly  after  her.  but  this  idea  was  soon  and  spirits  were  very  differently  to  her  she  saw  mr.  darcy  walk  into  the  room.  in  an  manner  he  immediately  began  an  enquiry  after  her  his  visit  to  a  wish  of  hearing  that  she  were  better.  she  him  with  cold  civility.  he  sat  down  for  a  few  and  getting  walked  about  the  room.  elizabeth  was  said  not  a  word.  after  a  silence  of  several  he  towards  her  in  an  agitated  and  thus  in  vain  i  have  struggled.  it  will  not  do.  my  feelings  will  be  repressed.  you  must  allow  me  to  tell  you  how  ardently  i  and  love  s  astonishment  was  beyond  expression.  she  and  was  silent.  this  he  considered  encouragement;  and  the  avowal  of  all  that  he  and  had  felt  for  immediately  followed.  he  spoke  well;  but  there  feelings  besides  those  of  the  heart  to  be  detailed;  and  he  not  more  eloquent  on  the  subject  of  tenderness  than  of  pride.  sense  of  her  of  its  being  a  of  the  obstacles  which  had  always  opposed  to  were  dwelt  with  a  warmth  which  seemed  due  to  the  consequence  he  but  was  very  unlikely  to  recommend  his  in  spite  of  her  rooted  she  could  not  insensible  to  the  compliment  of  such  a  s  though  her  intentions  did  not  vary  for  an  she  was  first  sorry  for  the  pain  he  was  to  receive;  roused  resentment  by  his  subsequent  she  lost  all  compassion  anger.  she  to  compose  herself  to  answer  him  when  he  should  have  done.  he  concluded  representing  to  her  the  strength  of  that  attachment  spite  of  all  his  he  had  found  impossible  to  and  with  expressing  his  hope  that  it  would  now  be  rewarded  by  acceptance  of  his  hand.  as  he  said  she  could  easily  that  he  had  no  doubt  of  a  favourable  answer.  he  apprehension  and  but  his  countenance  expressed  security.  such  a  circumstance  could  only  exasperate  when  he  the  colour  rose  into  her  and  she  in  such  cases  as  it  i  the  established  mode  express  a  sense  of  obligation  for  the  sentiments  unequally  they  may  be  returned.  it  is  natural  that  should  be  and  if  i  could  i  would  thank  you.  but  i  i  have  never  desired  your  good  and  you  have  certainly  bestowed  it  most  unwillingly.  i  am  to  have  occasioned  pain  to  anyone.  it  has  been  most  and  i  hope  will  be  of  short  duration.  the  you  tell  have  long  prevented  the  acknowledgment  your  can  have  little  difficulty  in  overcoming  it  this  mr.  who  was  leaning  against  the  mantelpiece  with  his  fixed  on  her  seemed  to  catch  her  words  with  no  resentment  than  surprise.  his  complexion  became  pale  with  and  the  disturbance  of  his  mind  was  visible  in  every  feature.  was  struggling  for  the  appearance  of  and  would  open  his  lips  till  he  believed  himself  to  have  attained  it.  pause  was  to  s  feelings  dreadful.  at  with  voice  of  forced  he  and  this  is  all  the  reply  which  i  am  to  have  the  honour  expecting!  i  wish  to  be  informed  with  little  at  i  am  thus  rejected.  but  it  is  small  i  might  as  well  replied  why  with  so  evident  desire  of  offending  and  insulting  you  chose  to  tell  me  you  liked  me  against  your  against  your  and  against  your  character?  was  not  this  some  excuse  for  if  i  uncivil?  but  i  have  other  provocations.  you  know  have.  had  not  my  feelings  decided  against  had  they  or  had  they  even  been  do  you  think  any  consideration  would  tempt  me  to  accept  the  man  who  has  the  means  of  perhaps  for  the  happiness  of  a  beloved  as  she  pronounced  these  mr.  darcy  changed  colour;  but  emotion  was  and  he  listened  without  attempting  interrupt  her  while  she  i  have  every  reason  in  the  world  to  think  ill  of  you.  no  can  excuse  the  unjust  and  ungenerous  part  you  acted  .  dare  you  cannot  that  you  have  been  the  not  the  only  means  of  dividing  them  from  each  of  one  to  the  censure  of  the  world  for  caprice  and  the  other  to  its  derision  for  disappointed  and  them  both  in  misery  of  the  acutest  she  and  saw  with  no  slight  indignation  that  he  listening  with  an  air  which  proved  him  wholly  unmoved  by  feeling  of  remorse.  he  even  looked  at  her  with  a  smile  affected  can  you  deny  that  you  have  done  she  with  assumed  tranquillity  he  then  replied:  i  have  no  wish  denying  that  i  did  everything  in  my  power  to  separate  my  from  your  or  that  i  rejoice  in  my  success.  towards  i  have  been  kinder  than  towards  elizabeth  disdained  the  appearance  of  noticing  this  but  its  meaning  did  not  nor  was  it  likely  conciliate  but  it  is  not  merely  this  she  on  which  dislike  is  founded.  long  before  it  had  taken  place  my  opinion  you  was  decided.  your  character  was  unfolded  in  the  recital  i  received  many  months  ago  from  mr.  wickham.  on  this  what  can  you  have  to  say?  in  what  imaginary  act  of  friendship  you  here  defend  yourself?  or  under  what  misrepresentation  can  here  impose  upon  you  take  an  eager  interest  in  that  s  in  a  less  tranquil  and  with  a  heightened  who  that  knows  what  his  misfortunes  have  can  help  an  interest  in  his  repeated  darcy  contemptuously;  misfortunes  have  been  great  and  of  your  cried  elizabeth  with  energy.  you  reduced  him  to  his  present  state  of  comparative  you  have  withheld  the  advantages  which  you  must  know  to  have  designed  for  him.  you  have  deprived  the  best  years  of  his  life  that  independence  which  was  no  less  his  due  than  his  desert.  have  done  all  this!  and  yet  you  can  treat  the  mention  of  misfortune  with  contempt  and  and  cried  as  he  walked  with  quick  steps  across  is  your  opinion  of  me!  this  is  the  estimation  in  which  hold  me!  i  thank  you  for  explaining  it  so  fully.  my  according  to  this  are  heavy  indeed!  but  added  stopping  in  his  and  turning  towards  offenses  might  have  been  had  not  your  pride  been  by  my  honest  confession  of  the  scruples  that  had  long  my  forming  any  serious  design.  these  bitter  accusations  have  been  had  with  greater  concealed  and  flattered  you  into  the  belief  of  my  being  by  unalloyed  inclination;  by  by  by  everything.  but  disguise  of  every  sort  is  my  abhorrence.  am  i  ashamed  of  the  feelings  i  related.  they  were  natural  just.  could  you  expect  me  to  rejoice  in  the  inferiority  of  to  congratulate  myself  on  the  hope  of  whose  condition  in  life  is  so  decidedly  beneath  my  elizabeth  felt  herself  growing  more  angry  every  moment;  yet  tried  to  the  utmost  to  speak  with  composure  when  she  you  are  mr.  if  you  suppose  that  the  mode  your  declaration  affected  me  in  any  other  than  as  it  me  the  concern  which  i  might  have  felt  in  refusing  had  behaved  in  a  more  gentlemanlike  she  saw  him  start  at  but  he  said  and  you  could  not  have  made  the  offer  of  your  hand  in  any  way  that  would  have  tempted  me  to  accept  again  his  astonishment  was  obvious;  and  he  looked  at  her  with  expression  of  mingled  incredulity  and  mortification.  she  went  from  the  very  from  the  first  i  may  of  my  acquaintance  with  your  impressing  me  the  fullest  belief  of  your  your  and  selfish  disdain  of  the  feelings  of  were  such  as  to  the  groundwork  of  disapprobation  on  which  succeeding  events  built  so  immovable  a  dislike;  and  i  had  not  known  you  a  before  i  felt  that  you  were  the  last  man  in  the  world  whom  could  ever  be  prevailed  on  to  you  have  said  quite  madam.  i  perfectly  comprehend  and  have  now  only  to  be  ashamed  of  what  my  own  been.  forgive  me  for  having  taken  up  so  much  of  your  accept  my  best  wishes  for  your  health  and  and  with  these  words  he  hastily  left  the  and  heard  him  the  next  moment  open  the  front  door  and  quit  the  the  tumult  of  her  was  now  painfully  great.  she  knew  not  to  support  and  from  actual  weakness  sat  down  and  for  hour.  her  as  she  reflected  on  what  was  increased  by  every  review  of  it.  that  she  receive  an  offer  of  marriage  from  mr.  darcy!  that  he  should  been  in  love  with  her  for  so  many  months!  so  much  in  love  as  wish  to  marry  her  in  spite  of  all  the  objections  which  had  him  prevent  his  s  marrying  her  and  which  appear  at  least  with  equal  force  in  his  own  was  incredible!  it  was  gratifying  to  have  inspired  unconsciously  strong  an  affection.  but  his  his  abominable  shameless  avowal  of  what  he  had  done  with  respect  to  unpardonable  assurance  in  though  he  could  justify  and  the  unfeeling  manner  in  which  he  had  mr.  his  cruelty  towards  whom  he  had  not  attempted  soon  overcame  the  pity  which  the  consideration  of  attachment  had  for  a  moment  excited.  she  continued  in  agitated  reflections  till  the  sound  of  lady  s  made  her  feel  how  unequal  she  was  to  encounter  and  hurried  her  away  to  her  chapter  elizabeth  awoke  the  next  morning  to  the  same  thoughts  meditations  which  had  at  length  closed  her  eyes.  she  could  yet  recover  from  the  surprise  of  what  had  happened;  it  impossible  to  think  of  anything  else;  totally  indisposed  she  soon  after  to  herself  in  air  and  exercise.  she  was  proceeding  directly  to  favourite  when  the  recollection  of  mr.  s  coming  there  stopped  and  instead  of  entering  the  turned  up  the  which  led  farther  from  the  road.  park  paling  was  still  the  boundary  on  one  and  she  passed  one  of  the  gates  into  the  after  walking  two  or  three  times  along  that  part  of  the  was  by  the  pleasantness  of  the  to  stop  at  gates  and  look  into  the  park.  the  five  weeks  which  she  had  passed  in  kent  had  made  a  great  difference  in  the  every  day  was  adding  to  the  verdure  of  the  early  trees.  she  on  the  point  of  continuing  her  when  she  caught  a  glimpse  a  gentleman  within  the  sort  of  grove  which  edged  the  park;  he  moving  that  way;  fearful  of  its  being  mr.  she  directly  retreating.  but  the  person  who  advanced  was  now  enough  to  see  and  stepping  forward  with  pronounced  her  name.  she  had  turned  away;  but  on  hearing  though  in  a  voice  which  proved  it  to  be  mr.  moved  again  towards  the  gate.  he  had  by  that  time  reached  holding  out  a  which  she  instinctively  with  a  look  of  haughty  i  have  been  walking  the  grove  some  time  in  the  hope  of  meeting  you.  will  you  do  the  honour  of  reading  that  and  with  a  slight  turned  again  into  the  and  was  soon  out  of  with  no  expectation  of  but  with  the  elizabeth  opened  the  to  her  increasing  perceived  an  envelope  containing  two  sheets  written  quite  in  a  very  close  hand.  envelope  itself  was  likewise  full.  pursuing  her  way  along  she  then  began  it.  it  was  dated  from  at  clock  in  the  and  was  as  be  not  on  receiving  this  by  apprehension  of  its  containing  any  repetition  of  those  or  renewal  of  those  offers  which  were  last  night  so  disgusting  you.  i  write  without  any  intention  of  paining  or  by  dwelling  on  wishes  for  the  happiness  of  cannot  be  too  soon  forgotten;  and  the  effort  which  the  and  the  perusal  of  this  letter  must  should  have  had  not  my  character  required  it  to  be  written  and  you  pardon  the  freedom  with  which  i  demand  attention;  your  i  will  bestow  it  i  demand  it  of  your  two  offenses  of  a  very  different  and  by  no  means  equal  you  last  night  laid  to  my  charge.  the  mentioned  regardless  of  the  sentiments  of  had  detached  mr.  bingley  from  your  and  the  that  in  defiance  of  various  in  defiance  of  honour  ruined  the  immediate  prosperity  and  blasted  prospects  of  mr.  wickham.  wilfully  and  wantonly  to  have  off  the  companion  of  my  the  acknowledged  favourite  of  a  young  man  who  had  scarcely  any  other  dependence  than  our  and  who  had  been  brought  up  to  expect  would  be  a  to  which  the  separation  of  young  whose  affection  could  be  the  growth  of  only  a  could  bear  no  comparison.  but  from  the  severity  of  blame  which  was  last  night  so  liberally  respecting  i  shall  hope  to  be  in  the  future  when  following  account  of  my  actions  and  their  motives  has  been  in  the  explanation  of  which  is  due  to  i  under  the  necessity  of  relating  feelings  which  may  be  to  i  can  only  say  that  i  am  sorry.  the  necessity  must  and  further  apology  would  be  i  had  not  been  long  in  before  i  in  with  that  bingley  preferred  your  elder  sister  to  other  young  woman  in  the  country.  but  it  was  not  till  the  of  the  dance  at  netherfield  that  i  had  any  apprehension  of  feeling  a  serious  attachment.  i  had  often  seen  him  in  before.  at  that  while  i  had  the  honour  of  dancing  with  i  was  first  made  by  sir  william  s  that  s  attentions  to  your  sister  had  rise  to  a  general  expectation  of  their  marriage.  he  spoke  of  as  a  certain  of  which  the  time  alone  could  be  from  that  moment  i  observed  my  s  behaviour  and  i  could  then  perceive  that  his  partiality  for  miss  bennet  beyond  what  i  had  ever  witnessed  in  him.  your  sister  i  watched.  her  look  and  manners  were  and  as  but  without  any  symptom  of  peculiar  and  remained  convinced  from  the  s  that  though  received  his  attentions  with  she  did  not  invite  them  any  participation  of  sentiment.  if  have  not  been  must  have  been  in  error.  your  superior  knowledge  your  sister  must  make  the  latter  probable.  if  it  be  if  i  been  misled  by  such  error  to  inflict  pain  on  your  has  not  been  unreasonable.  but  i  shall  not  scruple  to  that  the  serenity  of  your  s  countenance  and  air  was  as  might  have  given  the  most  acute  observer  a  conviction  however  amiable  her  her  heart  was  not  likely  to  be  touched.  that  i  was  desirous  of  believing  her  indifferent  but  i  will  venture  to  say  that  my  investigation  decisions  are  not  usually  influenced  by  my  hopes  or  fears.  i  not  believe  her  to  be  indifferent  because  i  wished  it;  i  it  on  impartial  as  truly  as  i  wished  it  in  reason.  objections  to  the  marriage  were  not  merely  those  which  i  night  acknowledged  to  have  required  the  utmost  force  of  to  put  in  my  own  case;  the  want  of  connection  could  not  so  great  an  evil  to  my  friend  as  to  me.  but  there  were  causes  of  repugnance;  causes  though  still  existing  to  an  equal  degree  in  both  i  had  endeavoured  to  because  they  were  not  immediately  me.  these  causes  must  be  though  briefly.  the  situation  your  s  though  was  nothing  comparison  to  that  total  want  of  propriety  so  almost  uniformly  betrayed  by  by  your  three  and  occasionally  even  by  your  father.  pardon  me.  pains  me  to  offend  you.  but  amidst  your  concern  for  the  of  your  nearest  and  your  displeasure  at  representation  of  let  it  give  you  consolation  to  to  have  conducted  yourselves  so  as  to  avoid  any  share  the  like  is  praise  no  less  generally  bestowed  on  you  your  elder  than  it  is  honourable  to  the  sense  disposition  of  both.  i  will  only  say  farther  that  from  passed  that  my  opinion  of  all  parties  was  every  inducement  heightened  which  could  have  led  me  preserve  my  friend  from  what  i  esteemed  a  most  connection.  he  left  netherfield  for  on  the  day  as  i  am  with  the  design  of  the  part  which  i  acted  is  now  to  be  explained.  his  uneasiness  had  been  equally  excited  with  my  own;  our  of  feeling  was  soon  alike  sensible  that  no  was  to  be  lost  in  detaching  their  we  shortly  resolved  joining  him  directly  in  london.  we  accordingly  and  there  readily  engaged  in  the  office  of  pointing  out  to  my  friend  certain  evils  of  such  a  choice.  i  and  enforced  earnestly.  however  this  remonstrance  might  have  staggered  delayed  his  i  do  not  suppose  that  it  ultimately  have  prevented  the  had  it  not  been  by  the  assurance  that  i  hesitated  not  in  of  your  indifference.  he  had  before  believed  her  to  return  his  with  if  not  with  equal  regard.  but  bingley  has  natural  with  a  stronger  dependence  on  my  judgement  on  his  own.  to  convince  that  he  had  was  no  very  difficult  point.  to  persuade  him  returning  into  when  that  conviction  had  was  scarcely  the  work  of  a  moment.  i  cannot  blame  for  having  done  thus  much.  there  is  but  one  part  of  my  conduct  the  whole  affair  on  which  i  do  not  reflect  with  satisfaction;  is  that  i  condescended  to  adopt  the  measures  of  art  so  far  as  conceal  from  him  your  s  being  in  town.  i  knew  it  as  it  was  known  to  miss  bingley;  but  her  brother  is  even  ignorant  of  it.  that  they  might  have  met  without  ill  is  perhaps  probable;  but  his  regard  did  not  appear  to  me  extinguished  for  him  to  see  her  without  some  danger.  perhaps  this  disguise  was  beneath  me;  it  is  and  it  was  done  for  the  best.  on  this  subject  i  have  nothing  to  no  other  apology  to  offer.  if  i  have  wounded  s  it  was  unknowingly  done  and  though  the  which  governed  me  may  to  you  very  naturally  appear  i  have  not  yet  learnt  to  condemn  with  respect  to  that  more  weighty  of  injured  mr.  i  can  only  refute  it  by  laying  before  the  whole  of  his  connection  with  my  family.  of  what  he  accused  me  i  am  ignorant;  but  of  the  truth  of  i  shall  i  can  summon  more  than  one  witness  of  mr.  wickham  is  the  son  of  a  very  respectable  who  had  many  years  the  management  of  all  the  pemberley  and  good  conduct  in  the  discharge  of  his  trust  naturally  inclined  father  to  be  of  service  to  him;  and  on  george  who  his  his  kindness  was  therefore  liberally  bestowed.  father  supported  him  at  and  afterwards  at  important  as  his  own  always  poor  from  extravagance  of  his  would  have  been  unable  to  give  him  s  education.  my  father  was  not  only  fond  of  this  s  whose  manners  were  always  engaging;  he  had  the  highest  opinion  of  and  hoping  the  church  would  be  intended  to  provide  for  him  in  it.  as  for  is  many  years  since  i  first  began  to  think  of  him  in  a  different  manner.  the  vicious  the  want  of  which  he  was  careful  to  guard  from  the  knowledge  of  his  could  not  escape  the  observation  of  a  young  man  of  the  same  age  with  and  who  had  opportunities  of  him  in  unguarded  which  mr.  darcy  could  not  have.  again  i  shall  give  you  to  what  degree  you  only  can  tell.  whatever  may  be  the  sentiments  which  mr.  wickham  has  suspicion  of  their  nature  shall  not  prevent  me  from  unfolding  real  it  adds  even  another  my  excellent  father  died  about  five  years  ago;  and  attachment  to  mr.  wickham  was  to  the  last  so  that  in  will  he  particularly  recommended  it  to  to  promote  advancement  in  the  best  manner  that  his  profession  and  if  he  took  desired  that  a  valuable  living  might  be  his  as  soon  as  it  became  vacant.  there  was  also  legacy  of  one  thousand  pounds.  his  own  father  did  not  survive  and  within  half  a  year  from  these  wickham  wrote  to  inform  me  having  finally  resolved  taking  he  hoped  i  should  not  think  it  unreasonable  him  to  expect  some  more  immediate  pecuniary  in  lieu  the  by  which  he  could  not  be  benefited.  he  had  he  of  studying  and  i  must  be  aware  the  interest  of  one  thousand  pounds  would  be  a  very  support  therein.  i  rather  than  believed  him  to  sincere;  at  any  was  perfectly  ready  to  accede  to  proposal.  i  knew  that  mr.  wickham  ought  not  to  be  a  the  business  was  therefore  soon  he  resigned  all  claim  assistance  in  the  were  it  possible  that  he  could  ever  in  a  situation  to  receive  and  accepted  in  return  thousand  pounds.  all  connection  between  us  seemed  now  i  thought  too  ill  of  him  to  invite  him  to  or  admit  society  in  town.  in  town  i  believe  he  chiefly  but  studying  the  law  was  a  mere  and  being  now  free  from  his  life  was  a  life  of  idleness  and  dissipation.  about  three  years  i  heard  little  of  him;  but  on  the  decease  the  incumbent  of  the  living  which  had  been  designed  for  applied  to  me  again  by  letter  for  the  presentation.  he  assured  and  i  had  no  difficulty  believing  were  exceedingly  bad.  he  had  found  the  law  a  unprofitable  and  was  now  absolutely  resolved  on  if  i  would  present  him  to  the  living  in  which  he  trusted  there  could  be  little  as  he  was  assured  that  i  had  no  other  person  to  provide  and  i  not  have  forgotten  my  revered  s  intentions.  you  hardly  blame  me  for  refusing  to  comply  with  this  or  resisting  every  repetition  to  it.  his  resentment  was  proportion  to  the  distress  of  his  and  he  doubtless  as  violent  in  his  abuse  of  me  to  others  as  in  reproaches  to  myself.  after  this  period  every  appearance  acquaintance  was  dropped.  how  he  lived  i  know  not.  but  summer  he  was  again  most  painfully  obtruded  on  my  i  must  now  mention  a  circumstance  which  i  would  wish  to  and  which  no  obligation  less  than  the  present  induce  me  to  unfold  to  any  human  being.  having  said  thus  feel  no  doubt  of  your  secrecy.  my  who  is  more  than  years  my  was  left  to  the  guardianship  of  my  colonel  and  myself.  about  a  year  was  taken  from  and  an  establishment  formed  for  her  london;  and  last  summer  she  went  with  the  lady  who  presided  to  ramsgate;  and  thither  also  went  mr.  by  design;  for  there  proved  to  have  been  a  prior  between  him  and  mrs.  in  whose  character  we  were  unhappily  deceived;  and  by  her  connivance  and  he  so  recommended  himself  to  whose  affectionate  retained  a  strong  impression  of  his  kindness  to  her  as  a  that  she  was  persuaded  to  believe  herself  in  and  to  to  an  elopement.  she  was  then  but  which  must  be  excuse;  and  after  stating  her  i  am  happy  to  i  owed  the  knowledge  of  it  to  herself.  i  joined  them  a  day  or  two  before  the  intended  and  then  unable  to  support  the  idea  of  grieving  and  offending  a  whom  she  almost  looked  up  to  as  a  acknowledged  the  to  me.  you  may  imagine  what  i  felt  and  how  i  acted.  regard  for  s  credit  and  feelings  prevented  any  public  exposure;  but  wrote  to  mr.  who  left  the  place  and  younge  was  of  course  removed  from  her  charge.  mr.  s  object  was  unquestionably  my  s  which  is  thousand  pounds;  but  i  cannot  help  supposing  that  the  hope  revenging  himself  on  me  was  a  strong  inducement.  his  would  have  been  complete  is  a  faithful  narrative  of  every  event  in  which  have  been  concerned  together;  and  if  you  do  not  absolutely  it  as  you  i  acquit  me  henceforth  of  towards  mr.  wickham.  i  know  not  in  what  under  what  of  falsehood  he  had  imposed  on  you;  but  his  success  is  perhaps  to  be  wondered  at.  ignorant  as  you  previously  were  everything  concerning  detection  could  not  be  in  and  suspicion  certainly  not  in  your  you  may  possibly  wonder  why  all  this  was  not  told  you  night;  but  i  was  not  then  master  enough  of  myself  to  know  could  or  ought  to  be  revealed.  for  the  truth  of  everything  i  can  appeal  more  particularly  to  the  testimony  colonel  from  our  near  relationship  and  still  as  one  of  the  executors  of  my  has  been  unavoidably  acquainted  with  every  particular  these  transactions.  if  your  abhorrence  of  should  make  assertions  you  cannot  be  prevented  by  the  same  from  confiding  in  my  cousin;  and  that  there  may  be  possibility  of  consulting  i  shall  endeavour  to  find  opportunity  of  putting  this  letter  in  your  hands  in  the  course  the  morning.  i  will  only  god  bless  fitzwilliam  chapter  if  when  mr.  darcy  gave  her  the  did  not  it  to  contain  a  renewal  of  his  she  had  formed  expectation  at  all  of  its  contents.  but  such  as  they  it  well  be  supposed  how  eagerly  she  went  through  and  what  contrariety  of  emotion  they  excited.  her  feelings  as  she  were  scarcely  to  be  defined.  with  amazement  did  she  understand  that  he  believed  any  apology  to  be  in  his  power;  steadfastly  was  she  that  he  could  have  no  to  which  a  just  sense  of  shame  would  not  conceal.  with  strong  prejudice  against  everything  he  might  she  began  account  of  what  had  happened  at  netherfield.  she  read  with  eagerness  which  hardly  left  her  power  of  and  impatience  of  knowing  what  the  next  sentence  might  incapable  of  attending  to  the  sense  of  the  one  before  her  his  belief  of  her  s  insensibility  she  instantly  to  be  false;  and  his  account  of  the  the  worst  objections  the  made  her  too  angry  to  have  any  wish  of  doing  justice.  he  expressed  no  regret  for  what  he  had  done  satisfied  her;  his  style  was  not  but  haughty.  it  all  pride  and  but  when  this  subject  was  succeeded  by  his  account  of  when  she  read  with  somewhat  clearer  attention  a  of  events  if  must  overthrow  every  cherished  of  his  and  which  bore  so  alarming  an  affinity  to  his  history  of  her  feelings  were  yet  more  acutely  painful  more  difficult  of  definition.  even  oppressed  her.  she  wished  to  discredit  it  repeatedly  this  must  be  false!  this  cannot  be!  must  be  the  grossest  and  when  she  had  gone  the  whole  though  scarcely  knowing  anything  of  the  page  or  put  it  hastily  protesting  that  she  would  regard  that  she  would  never  look  in  it  in  this  perturbed  state  of  with  thoughts  that  could  rest  she  walked  on;  but  it  would  not  do;  in  half  a  minute  letter  was  unfolded  and  collecting  herself  as  well  as  she  again  began  the  mortifying  perusal  of  all  that  to  and  commanded  herself  so  far  as  to  examine  meaning  of  every  sentence.  the  account  of  his  connection  with  pemberley  family  was  exactly  what  he  had  related  himself;  and  kindness  of  the  late  mr.  though  she  had  not  before  its  agreed  equally  well  with  his  own  words.  so  far  recital  confirmed  the  other;  but  when  she  came  to  the  difference  was  great.  what  wickham  had  said  of  the  living  fresh  in  her  and  as  she  recalled  his  very  it  impossible  not  to  feel  that  there  was  gross  duplicity  on  one  or  the  other;  for  a  few  she  flattered  herself  her  wishes  did  not  err.  but  when  she  read  and  read  with  closest  the  particulars  immediately  following  s  resigning  all  pretensions  to  the  of  receiving  in  lieu  so  considerable  a  sum  as  three  thousand  again  was  she  forced  to  hesitate.  she  put  down  the  weighed  every  circumstance  with  what  she  meant  to  deliberated  on  the  probability  of  each  with  little  success.  on  both  sides  it  was  only  assertion.  she  read  on;  but  every  line  proved  more  clearly  that  the  which  she  had  believed  it  impossible  that  any  contrivance  so  represent  as  to  render  mr.  s  conduct  in  it  less  was  capable  of  a  turn  which  must  make  him  blameless  throughout  the  the  extravagance  and  general  profligacy  which  he  scrupled  not  lay  at  mr.  s  exceedingly  shocked  her;  the  as  she  could  bring  no  proof  of  its  injustice.  she  had  heard  of  him  before  his  entrance  into  the  shire  which  he  had  engaged  at  the  persuasion  of  the  young  man  meeting  him  accidentally  in  had  there  renewed  a  acquaintance.  of  his  former  way  of  life  nothing  had  been  known  hertfordshire  but  what  he  told  himself.  as  to  his  real  had  information  been  in  her  she  had  never  felt  a  wish  enquiring.  his  and  manner  had  established  at  once  in  the  possession  of  every  virtue.  she  tried  to  some  instance  of  some  distinguished  trait  of  or  that  might  rescue  him  from  the  attacks  of  darcy;  or  at  by  the  predominance  of  atone  those  casual  errors  under  which  she  would  endeavour  to  class  mr.  darcy  had  described  as  the  idleness  and  vice  of  many  continuance.  but  no  such  recollection  befriended  her.  she  see  him  instantly  before  in  every  charm  of  air  and  but  she  could  remember  no  more  substantial  good  than  the  approbation  of  the  and  the  regard  which  his  powers  had  gained  him  in  the  mess.  after  pausing  on  this  point  considerable  she  once  more  continued  to  read.  the  story  which  of  his  designs  on  miss  some  confirmation  from  what  had  passed  between  fitzwilliam  and  herself  only  the  morning  before;  and  at  last  was  referred  for  the  truth  of  every  particular  to  fitzwilliam  from  whom  she  had  previously  received  information  of  his  near  concern  in  all  his  s  whose  character  she  had  no  reason  to  question.  at  one  time  had  almost  resolved  on  applying  to  but  the  idea  was  by  the  awkwardness  of  the  and  at  length  banished  by  the  conviction  that  mr.  darcy  would  never  hazarded  such  a  if  he  had  not  been  well  assured  of  s  she  perfectly  remembered  everything  that  had  passed  conversation  between  wickham  and  in  their  first  at  mr.  s.  many  of  his  expressions  were  still  fresh  her  memory.  she  was  struck  with  the  impropriety  of  communications  to  a  and  wondered  it  had  escaped  before.  she  saw  the  indelicacy  of  putting  himself  forward  as  had  and  the  inconsistency  of  his  professions  with  conduct.  she  remembered  that  he  had  boasted  of  having  no  fear  seeing  mr.  that  mr.  darcy  might  leave  the  but  should  stand  his  ground;  yet  he  had  avoided  the  ball  the  very  next  week.  she  remembered  also  till  netherfield  family  had  quitted  the  he  had  told  his  to  no  one  but  herself;  but  that  after  their  removal  it  had  everywhere  discussed;  that  he  had  then  no  no  in  sinking  mr.  s  though  he  had  assured  her  respect  for  the  father  would  always  prevent  his  exposing  the  how  differently  did  everything  now  appear  in  which  he  concerned!  his  attentions  to  miss  king  were  now  the  of  views  solely  and  hatefully  mercenary;  and  the  mediocrity  her  fortune  proved  no  longer  the  moderation  of  his  his  eagerness  to  grasp  at  anything.  his  behaviour  to  could  now  have  had  no  tolerable  motive;  he  had  either  deceived  with  regard  to  her  or  had  been  gratifying  vanity  by  encouraging  the  preference  which  she  believed  she  most  incautiously  shown.  every  lingering  struggle  in  his  grew  fainter  and  fainter;  and  in  farther  justification  of  she  could  not  but  allow  that  mr.  when  by  had  long  ago  asserted  his  blamelessness  in  the  that  proud  and  repulsive  as  were  his  she  had  the  whole  course  of  their  an  acquaintance  which  latterly  brought  them  much  and  given  her  a  sort  intimacy  with  his  seen  anything  that  betrayed  him  to  unprincipled  or  anything  that  spoke  him  of  irreligious  immoral  habits;  that  among  his  own  connections  he  was  and  that  even  wickham  had  allowed  him  merit  as  a  and  that  she  had  often  heard  him  speak  so  affectionately  of  sister  as  to  prove  him  capable  of  some  amiable  feeling;  that  his  actions  been  what  mr.  wickham  represented  so  gross  violation  of  everything  right  could  hardly  have  been  from  the  world;  and  that  friendship  between  a  person  capable  and  such  an  amiable  man  as  mr.  was  she  grew  absolutely  ashamed  of  herself.  of  neither  darcy  wickham  could  she  think  without  feeling  she  had  been  how  despicably  i  have  she  cried;  who  have  myself  on  my  discernment!  who  have  valued  myself  on  abilities!  who  have  often  disdained  the  generous  candour  of  and  gratified  my  vanity  in  useless  or  blameable  how  humiliating  is  this  discovery!  how  just  a  had  i  been  in  i  could  not  have  been  more  wretchedly  but  not  has  been  my  folly.  pleased  with  preference  of  and  offended  by  the  neglect  of  the  the  very  beginning  of  our  i  have  prepossession  and  and  driven  reason  where  were  concerned.  till  this  moment  i  never  knew  from  herself  to  from  jane  to  her  thoughts  were  in  line  which  soon  brought  to  her  recollection  that  mr.  explanation  had  appeared  very  and  she  it  again.  widely  different  was  the  effect  of  a  second  how  could  she  deny  that  credit  to  his  assertions  in  one  which  she  had  been  obliged  to  give  in  the  other?  he  himself  to  be  totally  unsuspicious  of  her  s  and  she  could  not  help  remembering  what  s  opinion  always  been.  neither  could  she  deny  the  justice  of  description  of  jane.  she  felt  that  s  were  little  and  that  there  was  a  complacency  in  her  air  and  manner  not  often  united  with  when  she  came  to  that  part  of  the  letter  in  which  her  family  mentioned  in  terms  of  such  yet  merited  sense  of  shame  was  severe.  the  justice  of  the  charge  struck  too  forcibly  for  and  the  circumstances  to  which  particularly  alluded  as  having  passed  at  the  netherfield  and  as  confirming  all  his  first  could  not  made  a  stronger  impression  on  his  mind  than  on  the  compliment  to  herself  and  her  sister  was  not  unfelt.  but  it  could  not  console  her  for  the  contempt  which  thus  been  attracted  by  the  rest  of  her  family;  and  as  considered  that  s  disappointment  had  in  fact  been  the  of  her  nearest  and  reflected  how  materially  the  of  both  must  be  hurt  by  such  impropriety  of  she  depressed  beyond  anything  she  had  ever  known  after  wandering  along  the  lane  for  two  giving  way  to  variety  of  considering  and  reconciling  as  well  as  she  a  change  so  sudden  and  so  and  a  of  her  long  made  her  at  length  return  home;  and  entered  the  house  with  the  wish  of  appearing  cheerful  as  and  the  resolution  of  repressing  such  reflections  as  must  her  unfit  for  she  was  immediately  told  that  the  two  gentlemen  from  rosings  each  called  during  her  absence;  mr.  only  for  a  to  take  but  that  colonel  fitzwilliam  had  sitting  with  them  at  least  an  hoping  for  her  almost  resolving  to  walk  after  her  till  she  could  be  elizabeth  could  but  just  concern  in  missing  him;  really  rejoiced  at  it.  colonel  fitzwilliam  was  no  longer  object;  she  could  think  only  of  her  chapter  the  two  gentlemen  left  rosings  the  next  and  mr.  having  been  in  waiting  near  the  to  make  them  his  was  able  to  bring  home  the  pleasing  their  appearing  in  very  good  and  in  as  tolerable  as  could  be  after  the  melancholy  scene  so  lately  through  at  rosings.  to  rosings  he  then  to  console  catherine  and  her  daughter;  and  on  his  return  brought  great  a  message  from  her  importing  she  felt  herself  so  dull  as  to  make  her  very  desirous  of  them  all  to  dine  with  elizabeth  could  not  see  lady  catherine  without  recollecting  had  she  chosen  she  might  by  this  time  have  been  presented  her  as  her  future  niece;  nor  could  she  without  a  what  her  s  indignation  would  have  been.  what  would  have  said?  how  would  she  have  were  questions  with  she  amused  their  first  subject  was  the  diminution  of  the  rosings  party.  assure  i  feel  it  said  lady  catherine;  believe  no  one  feels  the  loss  of  friends  so  much  as  i  do.  but  am  particularly  attached  to  these  young  and  know  them  to  so  much  attached  to  me!  they  were  excessively  sorry  to  go!  but  they  always  are.  the  dear  colonel  rallied  his  spirits  till  just  at  last;  but  darcy  seemed  to  feel  it  most  i  than  last  year.  his  attachment  to  certainly  mr.  collins  had  a  and  an  allusion  to  throw  in  which  were  kindly  smiled  on  by  the  mother  and  lady  catherine  after  that  miss  bennet  out  of  and  immediately  accounting  for  it  supposing  that  she  did  not  like  to  go  home  again  so  but  if  that  is  the  you  must  write  to  your  mother  and  that  you  may  stay  a  little  longer.  mrs.  collins  will  be  very  of  your  i  am  i  am  much  obliged  to  your  ladyship  for  your  kind  replied  but  it  is  not  in  my  power  to  accept  it.  must  be  in  town  next  at  that  you  will  have  been  here  only  six  weeks.  expected  you  to  stay  two  months.  i  told  mrs.  collins  so  you  came.  there  can  be  no  occasion  for  your  going  so  soon.  bennet  could  certainly  spare  you  for  another  but  my  father  cannot.  he  wrote  last  week  to  hurry  my  oh!  your  father  of  course  may  spare  if  your  mother  daughters  are  never  of  so  much  consequence  to  a  father.  and  you  will  stay  another  it  will  be  in  my  power  take  one  of  you  as  far  as  for  i  am  going  there  early  for  a  week;  and  as  dawson  does  not  object  to  there  will  be  very  good  room  for  one  of  if  the  weather  should  happen  to  be  i  should  object  to  taking  you  as  you  are  neither  of  you  you  are  all  madam;  but  i  believe  we  must  abide  by  original  lady  catherine  seemed  resigned.  mrs.  you  must  send  servant  with  them.  you  know  i  always  speak  my  and  i  bear  the  idea  of  two  young  women  travelling  post  by  it  is  highly  improper.  you  must  contrive  to  send  somebody.  i  the  greatest  dislike  in  the  world  to  that  sort  of  thing.  women  should  always  be  properly  guarded  and  to  their  situation  in  life.  when  my  niece  georgiana  went  ramsgate  last  i  made  a  point  of  her  having  servants  go  with  her.  miss  the  daughter  of  mr.  of  and  lady  could  not  have  appeared  propriety  in  a  different  manner.  i  am  excessively  attentive  all  those  things.  you  must  send  john  with  the  young  collins.  i  am  glad  it  occurred  to  me  to  mention  it;  for  it  really  be  discreditable  to  to  let  them  go  my  uncle  is  to  send  a  servant  for  oh!  your  uncle!  he  keeps  a  does  he?  i  am  very  you  have  somebody  who  thinks  of  these  things.  where  shall  change  horses?  oh!  of  course.  if  you  mention  my  name  the  you  will  be  attended  lady  catherine  had  many  other  questions  to  ask  respecting  and  as  she  did  not  answer  them  all  was  which  elizabeth  believed  to  be  lucky  for  her;  with  a  mind  so  she  might  have  forgotten  where  she  reflection  must  be  reserved  for  solitary  hours;  whenever  she  she  gave  way  to  it  as  the  greatest  relief;  and  not  a  went  by  without  a  solitary  in  which  she  might  indulge  all  the  delight  of  unpleasant  mr.  s  letter  she  was  in  a  fair  way  of  soon  knowing  heart.  she  studied  every  sentence;  and  her  feelings  towards  writer  were  at  times  widely  different.  when  she  remembered  style  of  his  she  was  still  full  of  indignation;  but  she  considered  how  unjustly  she  had  condemned  and  upbraided  her  anger  was  turned  against  herself;  and  his  feelings  became  the  object  of  compassion.  his  attachment  his  general  character  respect;  but  she  could  approve  him;  nor  could  she  for  a  moment  repent  her  feel  the  slightest  inclination  ever  to  see  him  again.  in  her  past  there  was  a  constant  source  of  vexation  regret;  and  in  the  unhappy  defects  of  her  a  subject  yet  heavier  chagrin.  they  were  hopeless  of  remedy.  her  contented  with  laughing  at  would  never  exert  himself  restrain  the  wild  giddiness  of  his  youngest  daughters;  and  with  manners  so  far  from  right  was  insensible  of  the  evil.  elizabeth  had  frequently  united  with  in  an  endeavour  to  check  the  imprudence  of  catherine  and  but  while  they  were  supported  by  their  s  chance  could  there  be  of  improvement?  and  completely  under  s  had  been  affronted  by  their  advice;  and  willed  and  would  scarcely  give  them  a  hearing.  they  were  vain.  while  there  was  an  officer  in  they  would  with  him;  and  while  meryton  was  within  a  walk  of  would  be  going  there  anxiety  on  s  behalf  was  another  prevailing  concern;  and  s  by  restoring  bingley  to  all  her  former  heightened  the  sense  of  what  jane  had  lost.  affection  was  proved  to  have  been  and  his  cleared  of  all  unless  any  could  attach  to  the  of  his  confidence  in  his  friend.  how  grievous  then  was  thought  of  a  situation  so  desirable  in  every  replete  with  so  promising  for  jane  had  by  the  folly  and  indecorum  of  her  own  when  to  these  recollections  was  added  the  development  s  it  may  be  easily  believed  that  the  spirits  which  had  seldom  been  depressed  were  now  so  affected  as  to  make  it  almost  impossible  for  her  to  tolerably  their  engagements  at  rosings  were  as  frequent  during  the  week  of  her  stay  as  they  had  been  at  first.  the  very  last  was  spent  there;  and  her  ladyship  again  enquired  minutely  the  particulars  of  their  gave  them  directions  as  to  best  method  of  and  was  so  urgent  on  the  necessity  placing  gowns  in  the  only  right  that  maria  thought  on  her  to  undo  all  the  work  of  the  pack  her  trunk  when  they  lady  with  great  wished  them  a  good  and  invited  them  to  come  to  again  next  year;  and  miss  de  bourgh  exerted  herself  so  far  as  curtsey  and  hold  out  her  hand  to  chapter  on  saturday  morning  elizabeth  and  mr.  collins  met  for  breakfast  few  minutes  before  the  others  appeared;  and  he  took  opportunity  of  paying  the  parting  civilities  which  he  indispensably  i  know  miss  said  whether  mrs.  collins  yet  expressed  her  sense  of  your  kindness  in  coming  to  us;  but  am  very  certain  you  will  not  leave  the  house  without  her  thanks  for  it.  the  favour  of  your  company  has  been  much  i  assure  you.  we  know  how  little  there  is  to  tempt  anyone  to  humble  abode.  our  plain  manner  of  our  small  rooms  and  and  the  little  we  see  of  the  must  make  extremely  dull  to  a  young  lady  like  yourself;  but  i  hope  you  believe  us  grateful  for  the  and  that  we  have  everything  in  our  power  to  prevent  your  spending  your  elizabeth  was  eager  with  her  thanks  and  assurances  of  she  had  spent  six  weeks  with  great  enjoyment;  and  the  pleasure  being  with  and  the  kind  attentions  she  had  must  make  feel  the  obliged.  mr.  collins  was  with  a  more  smiling  solemnity  it  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  hear  that  you  have  passed  time  not  disagreeably.  we  have  certainly  done  our  best;  and  fortunately  having  it  in  our  power  to  introduce  you  to  superior  from  our  connection  with  frequent  means  of  varying  the  humble  home  i  think  we  flatter  ourselves  that  your  hunsford  visit  cannot  have  entirely  irksome.  our  situation  with  regard  to  lady  family  is  indeed  the  sort  of  extraordinary  advantage  and  which  few  can  boast.  you  see  on  what  a  footing  we  are.  you  how  continually  we  are  engaged  there.  in  truth  i  must  with  all  the  disadvantages  of  this  humble  should  not  think  anyone  abiding  in  it  an  object  of  while  they  are  sharers  of  our  intimacy  at  words  were  insufficient  for  the  elevation  of  his  feelings;  and  was  obliged  to  walk  about  the  while  elizabeth  tried  unite  civility  and  truth  in  a  few  short  you  in  carry  a  very  favourable  report  of  us  my  dear  cousin.  i  flatter  myself  at  least  that  will  be  able  to  do  so.  lady  s  great  attentions  to  collins  you  have  been  a  daily  witness  of;  and  altogether  i  it  does  not  appear  that  your  friend  has  drawn  an  on  this  point  it  will  be  as  well  to  be  silent.  only  let  me  my  dear  miss  that  i  can  from  my  heart  cordially  wish  you  equal  felicity  in  marriage.  my  dear  and  i  have  but  one  mind  and  one  way  of  thinking.  there  is  everything  a  most  remarkable  resemblance  of  character  and  between  us.  we  seem  to  have  been  designed  for  each  elizabeth  could  safely  say  that  it  was  a  great  happiness  that  was  the  and  with  equal  sincerity  could  that  firmly  believed  and  rejoiced  in  his  domestic  comforts.  she  not  to  have  the  recital  of  them  interrupted  the  lady  from  whom  they  sprang.  poor  charlotte!  it  was  to  leave  her  to  such  society!  but  she  had  chosen  it  with  her  open;  and  though  evidently  regretting  that  her  visitors  were  she  did  not  seem  to  ask  for  compassion.  her  home  and  her  parish  and  her  and  all  their  had  not  yet  lost  their  at  length  the  chaise  the  trunks  were  fastened  parcels  placed  and  it  was  pronounced  to  be  ready.  an  affectionate  parting  between  the  elizabeth  attended  to  the  carriage  by  mr.  and  as  they  walked  the  garden  he  was  commissioning  her  with  his  best  respects  to  her  not  forgetting  his  thanks  for  the  kindness  he  received  at  longbourn  in  the  and  his  compliments  to  and  mrs.  though  unknown.  he  then  handed  her  and  the  door  was  on  the  point  of  being  when  suddenly  reminded  with  some  that  they  hitherto  forgotten  to  leave  any  message  for  the  ladies  he  you  will  of  course  wish  to  have  your  respects  delivered  to  with  your  grateful  thanks  for  kindness  to  you  while  you  have  been  elizabeth  made  no  objection;  the  door  was  then  allowed  to  and  the  carriage  drove  good  cried  after  a  few  seems  but  a  day  or  two  since  we  first  came!  and  yet  how  things  have  a  great  many  said  her  companion  with  a  we  have  dined  nine  times  at  besides  drinking  tea  twice!  how  much  i  shall  have  to  elizabeth  added  and  how  much  i  shall  have  their  journey  was  performed  without  much  or  alarm;  and  within  four  hours  of  their  leaving  hunsford  reached  mr.  s  where  they  were  to  remain  a  jane  looked  and  elizabeth  had  little  opportunity  studying  her  amidst  the  various  engagements  which  kindness  of  her  aunt  had  reserved  for  them.  but  jane  was  to  home  with  and  at  longbourn  there  would  be  leisure  enough  it  was  not  without  an  that  she  could  wait  for  before  she  told  her  sister  of  mr.  proposals.  to  know  that  she  had  the  power  of  revealing  what  so  exceedingly  astonish  and  at  the  same  highly  gratify  whatever  of  her  own  vanity  she  had  not  yet  able  to  reason  was  such  a  temptation  to  openness  as  could  have  conquered  but  the  state  of  indecision  in  which  remained  as  to  the  extent  of  what  she  should  communicate;  and  if  she  once  entered  on  the  of  being  hurried  repeating  something  of  bingley  which  might  only  grieve  her  chapter  it  was  the  second  week  in  in  which  the  three  young  set  out  together  from  gracechurch  street  for  the  town  of  hertfordshire;  as  they  drew  near  the  appointed  inn  where  s  carriage  was  to  meet  they  quickly  token  of  the  s  both  kitty  and  lydia  out  of  a  room  up  stairs.  these  two  girls  had  been  above  hour  in  the  happily  employed  in  visiting  an  watching  the  sentinel  on  and  dressing  a  and  after  welcoming  their  they  triumphantly  displayed  table  set  out  with  such  cold  meat  as  an  inn  larder  is  not  this  nice?  is  not  this  an  and  we  mean  to  treat  you  added  but  you  must  us  the  for  we  have  just  spent  ours  at  the  shop  out  showing  her  look  i  have  bought  bonnet.  i  do  not  think  it  is  very  pretty;  but  i  thought  i  as  well  buy  it  as  not.  i  shall  pull  it  to  pieces  as  soon  as  i  and  see  if  i  can  make  it  up  any  and  when  her  sisters  abused  it  as  she  with  oh!  but  there  were  two  or  three  much  uglier  in  shop;  and  when  i  have  bought  some  coloured  satin  to  it  with  i  think  it  will  be  very  tolerable.  will  not  much  signify  what  one  wears  this  after  shire  have  left  and  they  are  going  in  a  are  they  cried  with  the  they  are  going  to  be  encamped  near  brighton;  and  i  do  so  papa  to  take  us  all  there  for  the  summer!  it  would  be  such  delicious  scheme;  and  i  dare  say  would  hardly  cost  anything  all.  mamma  would  like  to  go  too  of  all  things!  only  think  what  miserable  summer  else  we  shall  thought  would  be  a  delightful  and  completely  do  for  us  at  once.  good  heaven!  and  a  whole  campful  of  to  who  have  been  already  by  one  poor  regiment  of  and  the  monthly  balls  now  i  have  got  some  news  for  said  as  they  sat  at  table.  what  do  you  think?  it  is  excellent  and  about  a  certain  person  we  all  jane  and  elizabeth  looked  at  each  and  the  waiter  was  he  need  not  stay.  lydia  and  that  is  just  like  your  formality  and  discretion.  thought  the  waiter  must  not  as  if  he  cared!  i  dare  say  often  hears  worse  things  said  than  i  am  going  to  say.  but  he  an  ugly  fellow!  i  am  glad  he  is  gone.  i  never  saw  such  a  chin  in  my  life.  but  now  for  my  news;  it  is  about  wickham;  too  good  for  the  is  it  not?  there  is  no  of  s  marrying  mary  king.  s  for  you!  she  is  down  to  her  uncle  at  liverpool:  gone  to  stay.  wickham  is  and  mary  king  is  added  elizabeth;  safe  from  a  imprudent  as  to  she  is  a  great  fool  for  going  if  she  liked  but  i  hope  there  is  no  strong  attachment  on  either  i  am  sure  there  is  not  on  .  i  will  answer  for  he  cared  three  straws  about  who  about  such  a  little  freckled  elizabeth  was  shocked  to  think  however  incapable  of  coarseness  of  the  coarseness  of  was  little  other  than  her  own  breast  had  and  fancied  as  soon  as  all  had  and  the  elder  ones  the  carriage  ordered;  and  after  some  the  whole  with  their  and  and  the  unwelcome  of  s  and  s  were  seated  in  how  nicely  we  are  all  crammed  cried  lydia.  i  am  glad  bought  my  if  it  is  only  for  the  fun  of  having  bandbox!  now  let  us  be  quite  comfortable  and  and  and  laugh  all  the  way  home.  and  in  the  first  let  us  what  has  happened  to  you  all  since  you  went  away.  have  you  any  pleasant  men?  have  you  had  any  flirting?  i  was  in  great  that  one  of  you  would  have  got  a  husband  before  you  came  jane  will  be  quite  an  old  maid  i  declare.  she  is  twenty!  how  ashamed  i  should  be  of  not  married  before  twenty!  my  aunt  phillips  wants  you  so  get  you  t  think.  she  says  lizzy  had  better  taken  mr.  collins;  but  do  not  think  there  would  have  been  fun  in  it.  lord!  how  i  should  like  to  be  married  before  any  you;  and  then  i  would  you  about  to  all  the  balls.  me!  we  had  such  a  good  piece  of  fun  the  other  day  at  s.  kitty  and  me  were  to  spend  the  day  and  forster  promised  to  have  a  little  dance  in  the  evening;  (by  mrs.  forster  and  me  are  friends!)  and  so  she  the  two  harringtons  to  but  harriet  was  and  so  pen  forced  to  come  by  herself;  and  what  do  you  think  we  did?  dressed  up  chamberlayne  in  s  clothes  on  purpose  to  pass  a  only  think  what  fun!  not  a  soul  knew  of  but  and  mrs.  and  kitty  and  except  my  for  we  forced  to  borrow  one  of  her  gowns;  and  you  cannot  imagine  well  he  looked!  when  and  and  and  two  three  more  of  the  men  came  they  did  not  know  him  in  least.  lord!  how  i  laughed!  and  so  did  mrs.  forster.  i  thought  should  have  died.  and  made  the  men  suspect  then  they  soon  found  out  what  was  the  with  such  kinds  of  histories  of  their  parties  and  good  assisted  by  s  hints  and  endeavour  amuse  her  companions  all  the  way  to  longbourn.  elizabeth  as  little  as  she  but  there  was  no  escaping  the  mention  of  s  their  reception  at  home  was  most  kind.  mrs.  bennet  rejoiced  see  jane  in  undiminished  beauty;  and  more  than  once  during  did  mr.  bennet  say  voluntarily  to  i  am  glad  you  are  come  their  party  in  the  room  was  for  almost  all  lucases  came  to  meet  maria  and  hear  the  news;  and  various  the  subjects  that  occupied  them:  lady  lucas  was  enquiring  after  the  welfare  and  poultry  of  her  eldest  daughter;  bennet  was  doubly  on  one  hand  collecting  an  account  the  present  fashions  from  who  sat  some  way  below  on  the  retailing  them  all  to  the  younger  lucases;  in  a  voice  rather  louder  than  any  other  enumerating  the  various  pleasures  of  the  morning  to  anybody  would  hear  oh!  said  i  wish  you  had  gone  with  for  we  such  fun!  as  we  went  kitty  and  i  drew  up  the  pretended  there  was  nobody  in  the  coach;  and  i  should  have  so  all  the  if  kitty  had  not  been  sick;  and  when  we  got  the  i  do  think  we  behaved  very  for  we  the  other  three  with  the  nicest  cold  luncheon  in  the  if  you  would  have  we  would  have  treated  you  too.  and  when  we  came  away  it  was  such  fun!  i  thought  we  never  should  got  into  the  coach.  i  was  ready  to  die  of  laughter.  and  then  were  so  merry  all  the  way  home!  we  talked  and  laughed  so  that  anybody  might  have  heard  us  ten  miles  to  this  mary  very  gravely  far  be  it  from  my  to  depreciate  such  pleasures!  they  would  doubtless  congenial  with  the  generality  of  female  minds.  but  i  confess  would  have  no  charms  for  i  should  infinitely  prefer  a  but  of  this  answer  lydia  heard  not  a  word.  she  seldom  listened  anybody  for  more  than  half  a  and  never  attended  to  at  in  the  afternoon  lydia  was  urgent  with  the  rest  of  the  girls  walk  to  and  to  see  how  everybody  went  on;  but  steadily  opposed  the  scheme.  it  should  not  be  said  that  the  bennets  could  not  be  at  home  half  a  day  before  they  were  pursuit  of  the  officers.  there  was  another  reason  too  for  opposition.  she  dreaded  seeing  mr.  wickham  and  resolved  to  avoid  it  as  long  as  possible.  the  comfort  to  the  s  approaching  removal  was  indeed  beyond  in  a  fortnight  they  were  to  and  once  she  hoped  could  be  nothing  more  to  plague  her  on  his  she  had  not  been  many  hours  at  home  before  she  found  that  brighton  of  which  lydia  had  given  them  a  hint  at  the  was  under  frequent  discussion  between  her  parents.  elizabeth  directly  that  her  father  had  not  the  smallest  intention  yielding;  but  his  answers  were  at  the  same  time  so  vague  that  her  though  often  had  yet  despaired  of  succeeding  at  chapter  s  impatience  to  acquaint  jane  with  what  had  could  no  longer  be  overcome;  and  at  resolving  to  every  particular  in  which  her  sister  was  and  her  to  be  she  related  to  her  the  next  morning  chief  of  the  scene  between  mr.  darcy  and  miss  s  astonishment  was  soon  lessened  by  the  sisterly  partiality  which  made  any  admiration  of  elizabeth  perfectly  natural;  and  all  surprise  was  shortly  lost  in  feelings.  she  was  sorry  that  mr.  darcy  should  have  delivered  sentiments  in  a  manner  so  little  suited  to  recommend  them;  still  more  was  she  grieved  for  the  unhappiness  which  her  refusal  must  have  given  his  being  so  sure  of  succeeding  was  said  certainly  ought  not  to  have  appeared;  but  consider  how  much  must  increase  his  replied  i  am  heartily  sorry  for  him;  but  has  other  which  will  probably  soon  drive  away  regard  for  me.  you  do  not  blame  for  refusing  blame  you!  but  you  blame  me  for  having  spoken  so  warmly  of  i  do  not  know  that  you  were  wrong  in  saying  what  you  but  you  know  when  i  tell  you  what  happened  the  next  she  then  spoke  of  the  repeating  the  whole  of  its  as  far  as  they  concerned  george  wickham.  what  a  stroke  was  for  poor  jane!  who  would  willingly  have  gone  through  the  without  believing  that  so  much  wickedness  existed  in  the  race  of  as  was  here  collected  in  one  individual.  nor  s  though  grateful  to  her  capable  consoling  her  for  such  discovery.  most  earnestly  did  she  to  prove  the  probability  of  and  seek  to  clear  the  without  involving  the  this  will  not  said  elizabeth;  you  never  will  be  able  make  both  of  them  good  for  anything.  take  your  but  must  be  satisfied  with  only  one.  there  is  but  such  a  quantity  merit  between  them;  just  enough  to  make  one  good  sort  of  man;  of  late  it  has  been  shifting  about  pretty  much.  for  my  i  inclined  to  believe  it  all  s;  but  you  shall  do  as  it  was  some  before  a  smile  could  be  extorted  i  do  not  know  when  i  have  been  more  said  she.  so  very  bad!  it  is  almost  past  belief.  and  poor  mr.  darcy!  only  consider  what  he  must  have  suffered.  such  disappointment!  and  with  the  knowledge  of  your  ill  and  having  to  relate  such  a  thing  of  his  sister!  it  is  really  distressing.  i  am  sure  you  must  feel  it  oh!  my  regret  and  compassion  are  all  done  away  by  seeing  so  full  of  both.  i  know  you  will  do  him  such  ample  i  am  growing  every  moment  more  unconcerned  and  indifferent.  profusion  makes  me  saving;  and  if  you  lament  over  him  my  heart  will  be  as  light  as  a  poor  wickham!  there  is  such  an  expression  of  goodness  in  countenance!  such  an  openness  and  gentleness  in  his  there  certainly  was  some  great  mismanagement  in  the  education  those  two  young  men.  one  has  got  all  the  and  the  all  the  appearance  of  i  never  thought  mr.  darcy  so  deficient  in  the  of  as  you  used  to  and  yet  i  meant  to  be  uncommonly  clever  in  taking  so  decided  dislike  to  without  any  reason.  it  is  such  a  spur  to  such  an  opening  for  to  have  a  dislike  of  that  one  may  be  continually  abusive  without  saying  anything  just;  one  cannot  always  be  laughing  at  a  man  without  now  and  stumbling  on  something  when  you  first  read  that  i  am  sure  you  could  treat  the  matter  as  you  do  i  could  not.  i  was  uncomfortable  i  may  unhappy.  and  with  no  one  to  speak  to  about  what  i  no  to  comfort  me  and  say  that  i  had  not  been  so  very  weak  and  and  nonsensical  as  i  knew  i  had!  oh!  how  i  wanted  how  unfortunate  that  you  should  have  used  such  very  expressions  in  speaking  of  wickham  to  mr.  for  now  appear  wholly  certainly.  but  the  misfortune  of  speaking  with  bitterness  is  most  natural  consequence  of  the  prejudices  i  had  encouraging.  there  is  one  point  on  which  i  want  your  advice.  want  to  be  told  whether  i  or  ought  to  make  acquaintances  in  general  understand  s  miss  bennet  paused  a  and  then  surely  there  be  no  occasion  for  exposing  him  so  dreadfully.  what  is  that  it  ought  not  to  be  attempted.  mr.  darcy  has  not  me  to  make  his  communication  public.  on  the  particular  relative  to  his  sister  was  meant  to  be  kept  as  much  possible  to  myself;  and  if  i  endeavour  to  undeceive  people  as  the  rest  of  his  who  will  believe  me?  the  prejudice  against  mr.  darcy  is  so  that  it  would  be  death  of  half  the  good  people  in  meryton  to  attempt  to  place  in  an  amiable  light.  i  am  not  equal  to  it.  wickham  will  soon  gone;  and  therefore  it  will  not  signify  to  anyone  here  what  really  is.  some  time  hence  it  will  be  all  found  and  then  may  laugh  at  their  stupidity  in  not  knowing  it  before.  at  i  will  say  nothing  about  you  are  quite  right.  to  have  his  errors  made  public  might  him  for  ever.  he  is  sorry  for  what  he  has  anxious  to  establish  a  character.  we  must  not  make  the  tumult  of  s  mind  was  allayed  by  this  she  had  got  rid  of  two  of  the  secrets  which  had  weighed  on  for  a  and  was  certain  of  a  willing  listener  in  whenever  she  might  wish  to  talk  again  of  either.  but  there  still  something  lurking  of  which  prudence  forbade  disclosure.  she  dared  not  relate  the  other  half  of  mr.  nor  explain  to  her  sister  how  sincerely  she  had  valued  by  her  friend.  here  was  knowledge  in  which  no  one  partake;  and  she  was  sensible  that  nothing  less  than  a  understanding  between  the  parties  could  justify  her  in  off  this  last  encumbrance  of  mystery.  and  said  that  very  improbable  event  should  ever  take  i  shall  be  able  to  tell  what  bingley  may  tell  in  a  much  more  manner  himself.  the  liberty  of  communication  cannot  be  mine  it  has  lost  all  its  she  was  on  being  settled  at  at  leisure  to  observe  real  state  of  her  s  spirits.  jane  was  not  happy.  she  cherished  a  very  tender  affection  for  bingley.  having  never  fancied  herself  in  love  her  regard  had  all  the  warmth  first  from  her  age  and  steadiness  than  most  first  attachments  often  boast;  and  fervently  did  she  value  his  and  prefer  him  to  other  that  all  her  good  and  all  her  attention  to  feelings  of  her  were  requisite  to  check  the  of  those  regrets  which  must  have  been  injurious  to  her  own  and  their  said  mrs.  bennet  one  what  is  your  of  this  sad  business  of  s?  for  my  i  determined  never  to  speak  of  it  again  to  anybody.  i  told  sister  phillips  so  the  other  day.  but  i  cannot  find  out  that  saw  anything  of  him  in  london.  he  is  a  very  young  and  i  do  not  suppose  s  the  least  chance  in  world  of  her  ever  getting  him  now.  there  is  no  talk  of  his  to  netherfield  again  in  the  summer;  and  i  have  enquired  who  is  likely  to  i  do  not  believe  he  will  ever  live  at  netherfield  any  oh  well!  it  is  just  as  he  chooses.  nobody  wants  him  to  though  i  shall  always  say  he  used  my  daughter  extremely  ill;  if  i  was  i  would  not  have  put  up  with  it.  my  i  am  sure  jane  will  die  of  a  broken  heart;  and  then  he  be  sorry  for  what  he  has  but  as  elizabeth  could  not  receive  comfort  from  any  she  made  no  continued  her  soon  and  so  collinses  live  very  do  they?  i  only  it  will  last.  and  what  sort  of  table  do  they  keep?  charlotte  an  excellent  i  dare  say.  if  she  is  half  as  sharp  as  she  is  saving  enough.  there  is  nothing  extravagant  i  dare  nothing  at  a  great  deal  of  good  depend  upon  it.  will  take  care  not  to  outrun  their  income.  never  be  distressed  for  money.  much  good  may  it  do  and  i  they  often  talk  of  having  longbourn  when  father  is  dead.  they  look  upon  it  as  quite  their  i  dare  whenever  that  it  was  a  subject  which  they  could  not  mention  before  no;  it  would  have  been  strange  if  they  had;  but  i  make  no  they  often  talk  of  it  between  themselves.  if  they  can  easy  with  an  estate  that  is  not  lawfully  their  so  much  better.  should  be  ashamed  of  having  one  that  was  entailed  on  chapter  the  first  week  of  their  return  was  soon  gone.  the  second  it  was  the  last  of  the  s  stay  in  and  all  young  ladies  in  the  neighbourhood  were  drooping  apace.  dejection  was  almost  universal.  the  elder  miss  bennets  alone  still  able  to  and  and  pursue  the  usual  of  their  employments.  very  frequently  were  they  reproached  this  insensibility  by  kitty  and  whose  own  misery  and  who  could  not  comprehend  such  heartedness  any  of  the  good  heaven!  what  is  to  become  of  us?  what  are  we  to  they  often  exclaim  in  the  bitterness  of  woe.  how  can  you  smiling  their  affectionate  mother  shared  all  their  grief;  she  what  she  had  herself  endured  on  a  similar  twenty  years  i  am  said  i  cried  for  two  days  together  colonel  s  regiment  went  away.  i  thought  i  should  broken  my  i  am  sure  i  shall  break  said  if  one  could  but  go  to  observed  mrs.  if  one  could  but  go  to  brighton!  but  papa  is  a  little  bathing  would  set  me  up  and  my  aunt  phillips  is  sure  it  would  do  a  great  deal  added  such  were  the  kind  of  lamentations  resounding  perpetually  longbourn  house.  elizabeth  tried  to  be  diverted  by  them;  but  sense  of  pleasure  was  lost  in  shame.  she  felt  anew  the  justice  mr.  s  objections;  and  never  had  she  been  so  much  to  pardon  his  interference  in  the  views  of  his  but  the  gloom  of  s  prospect  was  shortly  cleared  away;  she  received  an  invitation  from  mrs.  the  wife  of  colonel  of  the  to  accompany  her  to  brighton.  invaluable  friend  was  a  very  young  and  very  married.  a  resemblance  in  good  humour  and  good  spirits  recommended  her  and  lydia  to  each  and  out  of  their  acquaintance  they  had  been  intimate  the  rapture  of  lydia  on  this  her  adoration  of  the  delight  of  mrs.  and  the  mortification  are  scarcely  to  be  described.  wholly  inattentive  to  s  lydia  flew  about  the  house  in  calling  for  s  and  laughing  talking  with  more  violence  than  ever;  whilst  the  luckless  continued  in  the  parlour  repining  at  her  fate  in  terms  unreasonable  as  her  accent  was  i  cannot  see  why  mrs.  forster  should  not  ask  as  well  said  though  i  am  her  particular  friend.  have  just  as  much  right  to  be  asked  as  she  and  more  i  am  two  years  in  vain  did  elizabeth  attempt  to  make  her  and  jane  make  her  resigned.  as  for  elizabeth  this  invitation  so  far  from  exciting  in  her  the  same  feelings  as  in  her  and  that  she  considered  it  as  the  death  warrant  of  possibility  of  common  sense  for  the  latter;  and  detestable  such  a  step  must  make  her  were  it  she  could  not  secretly  advising  her  father  not  to  let  her  go.  she  to  him  all  the  improprieties  of  s  general  little  advantage  she  could  derive  from  the  friendship  of  such  woman  as  mrs.  and  the  probability  of  her  being  yet  imprudent  with  such  a  companion  at  where  temptations  must  be  greater  than  at  home.  he  heard  and  then  lydia  will  never  be  easy  until  she  has  exposed  herself  in  public  place  or  and  we  can  never  expect  her  to  do  it  so  little  expense  or  inconvenience  to  her  family  as  under  present  if  you  were  said  of  the  very  disadvantage  to  us  all  which  must  arise  from  the  public  notice  s  unguarded  and  imprudent  which  has  arisen  from  i  am  sure  you  would  judge  differently  in  already  repeated  mr.  bennet.  has  she  away  some  of  your  lovers?  poor  little  lizzy!  but  do  not  be  down.  such  squeamish  youths  as  cannot  bear  to  be  connected  with  little  absurdity  are  not  worth  a  regret.  let  me  see  list  of  pitiful  fellows  who  have  been  kept  aloof  by  indeed  you  are  mistaken.  i  have  no  such  injuries  to  resent.  is  not  of  but  of  general  which  i  am  complaining.  our  our  respectability  in  the  world  be  affected  by  the  wild  the  assurance  and  disdain  all  restraint  which  mark  s  character.  excuse  for  i  speak  plainly.  if  my  dear  will  not  take  the  of  checking  her  exuberant  and  of  teaching  her  that  present  pursuits  are  not  to  be  the  business  of  her  she  soon  be  beyond  the  reach  of  amendment.  her  character  will  and  she  at  be  the  most  determined  that  ever  made  herself  or  her  family  ridiculous;  a  the  worst  and  meanest  degree  of  flirtation;  without  attraction  beyond  youth  and  a  tolerable  person;  from  ignorance  and  emptiness  of  her  wholly  unable  to  ward  any  portion  of  that  universal  contempt  which  her  rage  admiration  will  excite.  in  this  danger  kitty  also  comprehended.  she  will  follow  wherever  lydia  leads.  and  absolutely  uncontrolled!  oh!  my  dear  can  you  suppose  it  possible  that  they  will  not  be  censured  despised  wherever  they  are  and  that  their  sisters  will  be  often  involved  in  the  mr.  bennet  saw  that  her  whole  heart  was  in  the  affectionately  taking  her  hand  said  in  do  not  make  yourself  my  love.  wherever  you  and  jane  known  you  must  be  respected  and  valued;  and  you  will  not  to  less  advantage  for  having  a  couple  or  i  may  silly  sisters.  we  shall  have  no  peace  at  longbourn  if  lydia  not  go  to  brighton.  let  her  then.  colonel  forster  is  sensible  and  will  keep  her  out  of  any  real  mischief;  and  is  luckily  too  poor  to  be  an  object  of  prey  to  anybody.  brighton  she  will  be  of  less  importance  even  as  a  common  than  she  has  been  here.  the  officers  will  find  women  better  their  notice.  let  us  that  her  being  there  teach  her  her  own  insignificance.  at  any  she  cannot  many  degrees  without  authorising  us  to  lock  her  up  for  rest  of  her  with  this  answer  elizabeth  was  forced  to  be  content;  but  her  opinion  continued  the  and  she  left  him  disappointed  sorry.  it  was  not  in  her  to  increase  vexations  by  dwelling  on  them.  she  was  confident  of  performed  her  and  to  fret  over  unavoidable  augment  them  by  was  no  part  of  her  had  lydia  and  her  mother  known  the  substance  of  her  with  her  their  indignation  would  hardly  have  expression  in  their  united  volubility.  in  s  visit  to  brighton  comprised  every  possibility  of  happiness.  she  with  the  creative  eye  of  the  of  that  gay  place  covered  with  officers.  she  saw  the  object  of  to  tens  and  to  scores  of  them  at  unknown.  she  saw  all  the  glories  of  the  its  tents  forth  in  beauteous  uniformity  of  crowded  with  the  and  the  and  dazzling  with  scarlet;  to  complete  she  saw  herself  seated  beneath  a  tenderly  with  at  least  six  officers  at  had  she  known  her  sister  sought  to  tear  her  from  such  and  such  realities  as  what  would  have  been  her  they  could  have  been  understood  only  by  her  who  have  felt  nearly  the  same.  s  going  to  brighton  was  all  consoled  her  for  her  melancholy  conviction  of  her  s  intending  to  go  there  but  they  were  entirely  ignorant  of  what  had  passed;  and  raptures  with  little  to  the  very  day  s  leaving  elizabeth  was  now  to  see  mr.  wickham  for  the  last  time.  been  frequently  in  company  with  him  since  her  was  pretty  well  over;  the  agitations  of  former  entirely  so.  she  had  even  learnt  to  in  the  gentleness  which  had  first  delighted  an  affectation  and  sameness  to  disgust  and  weary.  in  his  present  behaviour  she  had  a  fresh  source  of  for  inclination  he  soon  testified  of  renewing  those  intentions  had  marked  the  early  part  of  their  acquaintance  could  only  after  what  had  since  to  provoke  her.  she  lost  all  for  him  in  finding  herself  thus  selected  as  the  object  of  idle  and  frivolous  gallantry;  and  while  she  steadily  could  not  but  feel  the  reproof  contained  in  his  that  however  and  for  whatever  his  attentions  been  her  vanity  would  be  and  her  secured  at  any  time  by  their  on  the  very  last  day  of  the  s  remaining  at  with  others  of  the  at  longbourn;  and  so  was  elizabeth  disposed  to  part  from  him  in  good  that  his  making  some  enquiry  as  to  the  manner  in  which  her  time  passed  at  she  mentioned  colonel  s  and  s  having  both  spent  three  weeks  at  and  asked  if  he  was  acquainted  with  the  he  looked  alarmed;  but  with  a  recollection  and  a  returning  that  he  had  seen  him  often;  after  observing  that  he  was  a  gentlemanlike  asked  her  how  she  had  liked  him.  her  was  warmly  in  his  favour.  with  an  air  of  indifference  he  afterwards  how  long  did  you  say  he  was  at  nearly  three  and  you  saw  him  almost  every  his  manners  are  very  different  from  his  very  different.  but  i  think  mr.  darcy  improves  cried  mr.  wickham  with  a  look  which  did  not  escape  and  may  i  but  checking  he  in  gayer  is  it  in  address  that  he  improves?  has  he  deigned  add  aught  of  civility  to  his  ordinary  for  i  dare  he  continued  in  a  lower  and  more  serious  that  he  improved  in  said  elizabeth.  in  i  he  is  much  what  he  ever  while  she  wickham  looked  as  if  scarcely  knowing  whether  rejoice  over  her  or  to  distrust  their  meaning.  there  was  something  in  her  countenance  which  made  him  listen  with  apprehensive  and  anxious  while  she  when  i  said  that  he  improved  on  i  did  not  that  his  mind  or  his  manners  were  in  a  state  of  from  knowing  him  his  disposition  was  s  alarm  now  appeared  in  a  heightened  complexion  agitated  look;  for  a  few  minutes  he  was  shaking  his  he  turned  to  her  and  said  in  gentlest  of  who  so  well  know  my  feeling  towards  mr.  will  comprehend  how  sincerely  i  must  rejoice  that  he  is  wise  enough  assume  even  the  of  what  is  right.  his  in  may  be  of  if  not  to  to  many  for  it  must  only  deter  him  from  such  foul  misconduct  as  i  suffered  by.  i  only  fear  that  the  sort  of  cautiousness  to  i  have  been  is  merely  adopted  on  visits  to  his  of  whose  good  opinion  and  judgement  he  much  in  awe.  his  fear  of  her  has  always  i  they  were  together;  and  a  good  deal  is  to  be  imputed  to  his  of  forwarding  the  match  with  miss  de  which  i  am  he  has  very  much  at  elizabeth  could  not  repress  a  smile  at  but  she  only  by  a  slight  inclination  of  the  head.  she  saw  that  he  to  engage  her  on  the  old  subject  of  his  and  she  in  no  humour  to  indulge  him.  the  rest  of  the  evening  passed  the  on  his  of  usual  but  with  further  attempt  to  distinguish  elizabeth;  and  they  parted  at  with  mutual  and  possibly  a  mutual  desire  of  meeting  when  the  party  broke  lydia  returned  with  mrs.  forster  from  whence  they  were  to  set  out  early  the  next  the  separation  between  her  and  her  family  was  rather  noisy  pathetic.  kitty  was  the  only  one  who  shed  tears;  but  she  did  from  vexation  and  envy.  mrs.  bennet  was  diffuse  in  her  wishes  for  the  felicity  of  her  and  impressive  in  injunctions  that  she  should  not  miss  the  opportunity  of  herself  as  much  as  advice  which  there  was  every  to  believe  would  be  well  attended  to;  and  in  the  happiness  of  lydia  herself  in  bidding  the  more  adieus  of  her  sisters  were  uttered  without  being  chapter  had  s  opinion  been  all  drawn  from  her  own  could  not  have  formed  a  very  pleasing  opinion  of  felicity  or  domestic  comfort.  her  captivated  by  youth  and  that  appearance  of  good  humour  which  youth  and  generally  had  married  a  woman  whose  weak  understanding  illiberal  mind  had  very  early  in  their  marriage  put  an  end  to  real  affection  for  her.  and  confidence  vanished  for  ever;  and  all  his  views  of  domestic  happiness  overthrown.  but  mr.  bennet  was  not  of  a  disposition  to  comfort  for  the  disappointment  which  his  own  imprudence  brought  in  any  of  those  pleasures  which  too  often  console  unfortunate  for  their  folly  or  their  vice.  he  was  fond  of  country  and  of  books;  and  from  these  tastes  had  arisen  principal  enjoyments.  to  his  wife  he  was  very  little  than  as  her  ignorance  and  folly  had  contributed  to  amusement.  this  is  not  the  sort  of  happiness  which  a  man  would  general  wish  to  owe  to  his  wife;  but  where  other  powers  entertainment  are  the  true  philosopher  will  benefit  from  such  as  are  had  never  been  blind  to  the  impropriety  her  s  behaviour  as  a  husband.  she  had  always  seen  it  pain;  but  respecting  his  and  grateful  for  affectionate  treatment  of  she  endeavoured  to  forget  she  could  not  and  to  banish  from  her  thoughts  continual  breach  of  conjugal  obligation  and  decorum  exposing  his  wife  to  the  contempt  of  her  own  was  highly  reprehensible.  but  she  had  never  felt  so  strongly  as  the  disadvantages  which  must  attend  the  children  of  so  a  nor  ever  been  so  fully  aware  of  the  evils  from  so  judged  a  direction  of  talents;  rightly  might  at  least  have  preserved  the  respectability  his  even  if  incapable  of  enlarging  the  mind  of  when  elizabeth  had  rejoiced  over  s  departure  she  little  other  cause  for  satisfaction  in  the  loss  of  the  their  parties  abroad  were  less  varied  than  and  at  she  had  a  mother  and  sister  whose  constant  repinings  at  dullness  of  everything  around  them  threw  a  real  gloom  over  domestic  circle;  though  kitty  might  in  time  regain  natural  degree  of  since  the  disturbers  of  her  brain  her  other  from  whose  disposition  greater  might  be  was  likely  to  be  hardened  in  all  her  and  assurance  by  a  situation  of  such  double  danger  as  place  and  a  camp.  upon  the  she  what  has  been  sometimes  found  that  an  event  to  which  had  looked  forward  with  impatient  desire  did  in  bring  all  the  satisfaction  she  had  promised  herself.  was  consequently  necessary  to  name  some  other  period  for  commencement  of  actual  to  have  some  other  point  on  her  wishes  and  hopes  might  be  and  by  again  enjoying  pleasure  of  console  herself  for  the  prepare  for  another  disappointment.  her  tour  to  the  lakes  was  the  object  of  her  happiest  thoughts;  it  was  her  best  for  all  the  uncomfortable  hours  which  the  discontentedness  of  mother  and  kitty  made  inevitable;  and  could  she  have  jane  in  the  every  part  of  it  would  have  been  but  it  is  thought  that  i  have  something  wish  for.  were  the  whole  arrangement  my  would  be  certain.  but  by  carrying  with  me  one  source  of  regret  in  my  s  i  may  reasonably  hope  have  all  my  expectations  of  pleasure  realised.  a  scheme  of  every  part  promises  delight  can  never  be  successful;  and  disappointment  is  only  warded  off  by  the  defence  of  some  peculiar  when  lydia  went  away  she  promised  to  write  very  often  and  minutely  to  her  mother  and  kitty;  but  her  letters  were  long  and  always  very  short.  those  to  her  contained  little  else  than  that  they  were  just  returned  from  where  such  and  such  officers  had  attended  where  she  had  seen  such  beautiful  ornaments  as  made  her  wild;  that  she  had  a  new  or  a  new  which  she  have  described  more  but  was  obliged  to  leave  off  in  violent  as  mrs.  forster  called  and  they  were  off  to  the  camp;  and  from  her  correspondence  with  her  there  was  still  less  to  be  for  her  letters  to  though  rather  were  much  too  full  of  lines  under  the  to  be  made  after  the  first  fortnight  or  three  weeks  of  her  good  and  cheerfulness  began  to  reappear  at  everything  wore  a  happier  aspect.  the  families  who  had  been  town  for  the  winter  came  back  and  summer  finery  and  engagements  arose.  mrs.  bennet  was  restored  to  her  querulous  serenity;  by  the  middle  of  kitty  was  so  recovered  as  to  be  able  to  enter  meryton  without  tears;  an  of  such  happy  promise  as  to  make  elizabeth  hope  that  by  following  christmas  she  might  be  so  tolerably  reasonable  as  to  mention  an  officer  above  once  a  by  some  cruel  malicious  arrangement  at  the  war  another  regiment  be  quartered  in  the  time  fixed  for  the  beginning  of  their  northern  tour  was  fast  and  a  fortnight  only  was  wanting  of  when  letter  arrived  from  mrs.  which  at  once  delayed  commencement  and  curtailed  its  extent.  mr.  gardiner  would  prevented  by  business  from  setting  out  till  a  fortnight  later  and  must  be  in  london  again  within  a  and  as  left  too  short  a  period  for  them  to  go  so  and  see  so  much  they  had  or  at  least  to  see  it  with  the  leisure  comfort  they  had  built  they  were  obliged  to  give  up  and  substitute  a  more  contracted  according  the  present  were  to  go  no  farther  northwards  derbyshire.  in  that  county  there  was  enough  to  be  seen  to  the  chief  of  their  three  weeks;  and  to  mrs.  gardiner  it  had  peculiarly  strong  attraction.  the  town  where  she  had  passed  some  years  of  her  and  where  they  were  now  to  spend  few  was  probably  as  great  an  object  of  her  curiosity  as  the  celebrated  beauties  of  or  elizabeth  was  excessively  disappointed;  she  had  set  her  heart  seeing  the  and  still  thought  there  might  have  been  enough.  but  it  was  her  business  to  be  and  certainly  temper  to  be  happy;  and  all  was  soon  right  with  the  mention  of  derbyshire  there  were  many  ideas  it  was  impossible  for  her  to  see  the  word  without  thinking  pemberley  and  its  owner.  but  said  i  may  enter  county  with  and  rob  it  of  a  few  petrified  spars  his  perceiving  the  period  of  expectation  was  now  doubled.  four  weeks  were  pass  away  before  her  uncle  and  s  arrival.  but  they  did  and  mr.  and  mrs.  with  their  four  did  length  appear  at  longbourn.  the  two  girls  of  six  eight  years  and  two  younger  were  to  be  left  under  particular  care  of  their  cousin  who  was  the  and  whose  steady  sense  and  sweetness  of  temper  adapted  her  for  attending  to  them  in  every  teaching  playing  with  and  loving  the  gardiners  stayed  only  one  night  at  and  set  off  next  morning  with  elizabeth  in  pursuit  of  novelty  and  one  enjoyment  was  that  of  suitableness  of  companions;  suitableness  which  comprehended  health  and  temper  to  cheerfulness  to  enhance  every  affection  and  which  might  supply  it  themselves  if  there  were  disappointments  it  is  not  the  object  of  this  work  to  give  a  description  nor  of  any  of  the  remarkable  places  through  their  route  thither  lay;  etc.  are  sufficiently  known.  a  small  part  derbyshire  is  all  the  present  concern.  to  the  little  town  the  scene  of  mrs.  s  former  and  she  had  lately  learned  some  acquaintance  still  bent  their  after  having  seen  all  the  principal  wonders  the  country;  and  within  five  miles  of  elizabeth  from  her  aunt  that  pemberley  was  situated.  it  was  not  in  direct  nor  more  than  a  mile  or  two  out  of  it.  in  over  their  route  the  evening  mrs.  gardiner  expressed  inclination  to  see  the  place  again.  mr.  gardiner  declared  and  elizabeth  was  applied  to  for  her  my  should  not  you  like  to  see  a  place  of  which  you  heard  so  said  her  aunt;  a  with  which  so  of  your  acquaintances  are  connected.  wickham  passed  all  his  you  elizabeth  was  distressed.  she  felt  that  she  had  no  business  and  was  obliged  to  assume  a  disinclination  for  it.  she  must  own  that  she  was  tired  of  seeing  great  houses;  going  over  so  she  really  had  no  pleasure  in  fine  carpets  satin  mrs.  gardiner  abused  her  stupidity.  if  it  were  merely  a  house  richly  said  i  should  not  care  about  myself;  but  the  grounds  are  delightful.  they  have  some  of  finest  woods  in  the  elizabeth  said  no  but  her  mind  could  not  acquiesce.  possibility  of  meeting  mr.  while  viewing  the  instantly  occurred.  it  would  be  dreadful!  she  blushed  at  the  and  thought  it  would  be  better  to  speak  openly  to  her  than  to  run  such  a  risk.  but  against  this  there  were  and  she  finally  resolved  that  it  could  be  the  last  her  private  enquiries  to  the  absence  of  the  family  unfavourably  when  she  retired  at  she  asked  the  whether  pemberley  were  not  a  very  fine  place?  what  was  the  of  its  proprietor?  with  no  little  whether  the  were  down  for  the  summer?  a  most  welcome  negative  followed  last  and  her  alarms  now  being  she  was  leisure  to  feel  a  great  deal  of  curiosity  to  see  the  herself;  and  when  the  subject  was  revived  the  next  she  was  again  applied  could  readily  and  with  a  air  of  that  she  had  not  really  any  dislike  to  scheme.  to  they  were  to  chapter  as  they  drove  watched  for  the  first  of  pemberley  woods  with  some  perturbation;  and  when  at  they  turned  in  at  the  her  spirits  were  in  a  high  the  park  was  very  and  contained  great  variety  of  they  entered  it  in  one  of  its  lowest  and  drove  for  time  through  a  beautiful  wood  stretching  over  a  wide  s  mind  was  too  full  for  but  she  saw  admired  every  remarkable  spot  and  point  of  view.  they  ascended  for  and  then  found  themselves  at  the  top  a  considerable  where  the  wood  and  the  eye  instantly  caught  by  pemberley  situated  on  the  side  of  a  into  which  the  road  with  some  abruptness  it  was  a  handsome  stone  standing  well  on  and  backed  by  a  ridge  of  high  woody  hills;  and  in  a  stream  of  some  natural  importance  was  swelled  into  without  any  artificial  appearance.  its  banks  were  neither  nor  falsely  adorned.  elizabeth  was  delighted.  she  had  never  a  place  for  which  nature  had  done  or  where  natural  had  been  so  little  counteracted  by  an  awkward  taste.  they  all  of  them  warm  in  their  admiration;  and  at  that  moment  she  that  to  be  mistress  of  pemberley  might  be  they  descended  the  crossed  the  and  drove  to  door;  while  examining  the  nearer  aspect  of  the  her  apprehension  of  meeting  its  owner  returned.  she  dreaded  the  chambermaid  had  been  mistaken.  on  applying  to  see  the  they  were  admitted  into  the  hall;  and  as  they  for  the  had  leisure  to  wonder  at  her  being  where  the  housekeeper  came;  a  looking  elderly  less  and  more  than  she  had  any  notion  of  her.  they  followed  her  into  the  parlour.  it  was  a  well  proportioned  handsomely  fitted  up.  slightly  surveying  went  to  a  window  to  enjoy  its  the  crowned  with  which  they  had  increased  abruptness  from  the  was  a  beautiful  every  disposition  of  the  ground  was  good;  and  she  looked  on  whole  the  the  trees  scattered  on  its  banks  and  winding  of  the  as  far  as  she  could  trace  delight.  as  they  passed  into  other  rooms  these  objects  taking  different  positions;  but  from  every  window  there  beauties  to  be  seen.  the  rooms  were  lofty  and  and  furniture  suitable  to  the  fortune  of  its  proprietor;  elizabeth  with  admiration  of  his  that  it  was  gaudy  nor  uselessly  fine;  with  less  of  and  more  than  the  furniture  of  and  of  this  thought  i  might  have  been  with  these  rooms  i  might  now  have  been  familiarly  instead  of  viewing  them  as  a  i  might  have  rejoiced  them  as  my  and  welcomed  to  them  as  visitors  my  uncle  aunt.  but  recollecting  that  could  never  be;  uncle  and  aunt  would  have  been  lost  to  me;  i  should  not  have  allowed  to  invite  this  was  a  lucky  it  saved  her  from  something  like  she  longed  to  enquire  of  the  housekeeper  whether  her  master  really  but  had  not  the  courage  for  it.  at  length  the  question  was  asked  by  her  uncle;  and  she  turned  away  while  mrs.  reynolds  replied  that  he  but  expect  him  with  a  large  party  of  rejoiced  was  elizabeth  that  their  own  journey  had  not  by  circumstance  been  delayed  a  her  aunt  now  called  her  to  look  at  a  picture.  she  approached  saw  the  likeness  of  mr.  amongst  several  over  the  mantelpiece.  her  aunt  asked  how  she  liked  it.  the  housekeeper  came  and  told  them  was  a  picture  of  a  young  the  son  of  her  late  who  had  been  brought  up  by  him  at  his  own  expense.  is  now  gone  into  the  she  added;  but  i  am  afraid  he  turned  out  very  mrs.  gardiner  looked  at  her  niece  with  a  but  could  not  return  and  said  mrs.  pointing  to  another  of  is  my  and  very  like  him.  it  was  drawn  at  same  time  as  the  about  eight  years  i  have  heard  much  of  your  s  fine  said  looking  at  the  picture;  it  is  a  handsome  face.  you  can  tell  us  whether  it  is  like  or  mrs.  reynolds  respect  for  elizabeth  seemed  to  increase  on  intimation  of  her  knowing  her  does  that  young  lady  know  mr.  elizabeth  and  said:  a  and  do  not  you  think  him  a  very  handsome  very  i  am  sure  know  none  so  handsome;  but  in  the  gallery  stairs  you  will  see  a  larger  picture  of  him  than  this  room  was  my  late  s  favourite  and  miniatures  are  just  as  they  used  to  be  then.  he  was  very  fond  this  accounted  to  elizabeth  for  mr.  s  being  among  mrs.  reynolds  then  directed  their  attention  to  one  of  miss  drawn  when  she  was  only  eight  years  and  is  miss  darcy  as  handsome  as  her  said  oh!  the  handsomest  young  lady  that  ever  was  seen;  and  she  plays  and  sings  all  day  long.  in  the  next  is  a  new  instrument  just  come  down  for  a  present  from  master;  she  comes  here  morrow  with  mr.  whose  manners  were  very  easy  and  encouraged  her  communicativeness  by  his  questions  and  mrs.  either  by  pride  or  had  evidently  pleasure  in  talking  of  her  master  and  his  is  your  master  much  at  pemberley  in  the  course  of  the  not  so  much  as  i  could  sir;  but  i  dare  say  he  may  half  his  time  here;  and  miss  darcy  is  always  down  for  the  thought  when  she  goes  to  if  your  master  would  you  might  see  more  of  sir;  but  i  do  not  know  when  will  be.  i  do  not  who  is  good  enough  for  mr.  and  mrs.  gardiner  smiled.  elizabeth  could  not  help  it  is  very  much  to  his  i  am  that  you  should  i  say  no  more  than  the  and  everybody  will  say  that  replied  the  other.  elizabeth  thought  this  was  going  far;  and  she  listened  with  increasing  astonishment  as  housekeeper  i  have  never  known  a  cross  word  from  him  my  and  i  have  known  him  ever  since  he  was  four  years  this  was  of  all  others  most  most  to  her  ideas.  that  he  was  not  a  tempered  man  had  been  firmest  opinion.  her  keenest  attention  was  awakened;  she  to  hear  and  was  grateful  to  her  uncle  for  there  are  very  few  people  of  whom  so  much  can  be  said.  you  lucky  in  having  such  a  i  know  i  am.  if  i  were  to  go  through  the  could  not  meet  with  a  better.  but  i  have  always  they  who  are  natured  when  are  natured  they  grow  up;  and  he  was  always  the  hearted  boy  in  the  elizabeth  almost  stared  at  her.  can  this  be  mr.  his  father  was  an  excellent  said  mrs.  that  he  was  indeed;  and  his  son  will  be  just  just  as  affable  to  the  elizabeth  and  was  impatient  more.  mrs.  reynolds  could  interest  her  on  no  other  point.  related  the  subjects  of  the  the  dimensions  of  and  the  price  of  the  in  vain.  mr.  highly  amused  by  the  kind  of  family  prejudice  to  which  attributed  her  excessive  commendation  of  her  soon  again  to  the  subject;  and  she  dwelt  with  energy  on  his  merits  as  they  proceeded  together  up  the  great  he  is  the  best  and  the  best  said  ever  lived;  not  like  the  wild  young  men  who  think  nothing  but  themselves.  there  is  not  one  of  his  tenants  servants  but  will  give  him  a  good  name.  some  people  call  proud;  but  i  am  sure  i  never  saw  anything  of  it.  to  my  is  only  because  he  does  not  rattle  away  like  other  young  in  what  an  amiable  light  does  this  place  this  fine  account  of  whispered  her  aunt  as  they  is  not  quite  consistent  with  his  behaviour  to  our  poor  perhaps  we  might  be  that  is  not  very  likely;  our  authority  was  too  on  reaching  the  spacious  lobby  above  they  were  shown  into  a  pretty  lately  fitted  up  with  greater  elegance  lightness  than  the  apartments  below;  and  were  informed  that  was  but  just  done  to  give  pleasure  to  miss  who  had  taken  liking  to  the  room  when  last  at  he  is  certainly  a  good  said  as  she  towards  one  of  the  mrs.  reynolds  anticipated  miss  s  when  she  enter  the  room.  and  this  is  always  the  way  with  she  whatever  can  give  his  sister  any  pleasure  is  sure  to  be  done  a  moment.  there  is  nothing  he  would  not  do  for  the  and  two  or  three  of  the  principal  were  all  that  remained  to  be  shown.  in  the  former  were  many  paintings;  but  elizabeth  knew  nothing  of  the  art;  and  from  as  had  been  already  visible  she  had  willingly  turned  look  at  some  drawings  of  miss  in  whose  were  usually  more  and  also  more  in  the  gallery  there  were  many  family  but  they  have  little  to  fix  the  attention  of  a  stranger.  elizabeth  in  quest  of  the  only  face  whose  features  would  be  known  to  at  last  it  arrested  and  she  beheld  a  striking  resemblance  mr.  with  such  a  smile  over  the  face  as  she  remembered  have  sometimes  seen  when  he  looked  at  her.  she  stood  minutes  before  the  in  earnest  returned  to  it  again  before  they  quitted  the  gallery.  reynolds  informed  them  that  it  had  been  taken  in  his  there  was  certainly  at  this  in  s  a  gentle  sensation  towards  the  original  than  she  had  ever  felt  the  height  of  their  acquaintance.  the  commendation  bestowed  him  by  mrs.  reynolds  was  of  no  trifling  nature.  what  praise  more  valuable  than  the  praise  of  an  intelligent  servant?  as  a  a  she  considered  how  many  happiness  were  in  his  how  much  of  pleasure  or  was  it  in  his  power  to  how  much  of  good  or  evil  must  done  by  him!  every  idea  that  had  been  brought  forward  by  housekeeper  was  favourable  to  his  and  as  she  before  the  canvas  on  which  he  was  and  fixed  his  upon  she  thought  of  his  regard  with  a  deeper  of  gratitude  than  it  had  ever  raised  before;  she  remembered  and  softened  its  impropriety  of  when  all  of  the  house  that  was  open  to  general  inspection  been  they  returned  taking  leave  of  were  consigned  over  to  the  who  met  them  the  as  they  walked  across  the  hall  towards  the  turned  back  to  look  again;  her  uncle  and  aunt  stopped  while  the  former  was  conjecturing  as  to  the  date  of  the  the  owner  of  it  himself  suddenly  came  forward  from  the  which  led  behind  it  to  the  they  were  within  twenty  yards  of  each  and  so  abrupt  his  that  it  was  impossible  to  avoid  his  sight.  eyes  instantly  and  the  cheeks  of  both  were  overspread  the  deepest  blush.  he  absolutely  and  for  a  moment  immovable  from  surprise;  but  shortly  recovering  towards  the  and  spoke  to  if  not  in  terms  perfect  at  least  of  perfect  she  had  instinctively  turned  away;  but  stopping  on  his  received  his  compliments  with  an  embarrassment  impossible  to  overcome.  had  his  first  or  his  resemblance  to  picture  they  had  just  been  been  insufficient  to  the  other  two  that  they  now  saw  mr.  the  expression  of  on  beholding  his  must  have  told  it.  they  stood  a  little  aloof  while  he  was  talking  their  astonished  and  scarcely  dared  her  eyes  to  his  and  knew  not  what  answer  she  returned  his  civil  enquiries  after  her  family.  amazed  at  the  alteration  his  manner  since  they  last  every  sentence  that  he  was  increasing  her  embarrassment;  and  every  idea  of  impropriety  of  her  being  found  there  recurring  to  her  few  minutes  in  which  they  continued  were  some  of  the  uncomfortable  in  her  life.  nor  did  he  seem  much  more  at  when  he  his  accent  had  none  of  its  usual  sedateness;  he  repeated  his  enquiries  as  to  the  time  of  her  having  and  of  her  stay  in  so  and  in  hurried  a  as  plainly  spoke  the  distraction  of  his  at  length  every  idea  seemed  to  fail  him;  after  standing  few  moments  without  saying  a  he  suddenly  and  took  the  others  then  joined  and  expressed  admiration  of  figure;  but  elizabeth  heard  not  a  and  wholly  engrossed  her  own  followed  them  in  silence.  she  was  by  shame  and  vexation.  her  coming  there  was  the  most  the  most  judged  thing  in  the  world!  how  strange  it  appear  to  him!  in  what  a  disgraceful  light  might  it  not  strike  vain  a  man!  it  might  seem  as  if  she  had  purposely  thrown  in  his  way  again!  oh!  why  did  she  come?  why  did  he  thus  a  day  before  he  was  expected?  had  they  been  only  ten  they  should  have  been  beyond  the  reach  of  discrimination;  for  it  was  plain  that  he  was  that  that  moment  alighted  from  his  horse  or  his  carriage.  blushed  again  and  again  over  the  perverseness  of  the  meeting.  his  so  strikingly  what  could  it  mean?  that  should  even  speak  to  her  was  but  to  speak  with  to  enquire  after  her  family!  never  in  her  life  had  seen  his  manners  so  little  never  had  he  spoken  such  gentleness  as  on  this  unexpected  meeting.  what  a  did  it  offer  to  his  last  address  in  rosings  when  he  put  letter  into  her  hand!  she  knew  not  what  to  or  how  account  for  they  had  now  entered  a  beautiful  walk  by  the  side  of  the  and  every  step  was  bringing  forward  a  nobler  fall  of  or  finer  reach  of  the  woods  to  which  they  were  approaching;  but  was  some  time  before  elizabeth  was  sensible  of  any  of  it;  though  she  answered  mechanically  to  the  repeated  appeals  of  uncle  and  and  seemed  to  direct  her  eyes  to  such  objects  they  pointed  she  distinguished  no  part  of  the  scene.  thoughts  were  all  fixed  on  that  one  spot  of  pemberley  whichever  it  might  where  mr.  darcy  then  was.  she  longed  know  what  at  the  moment  was  passing  in  his  in  what  manner  thought  of  and  in  defiance  of  she  still  dear  to  him.  perhaps  he  had  been  civil  only  because  he  himself  at  ease;  yet  there  had  been  in  his  voice  which  not  like  ease.  whether  he  had  felt  more  of  pain  or  of  pleasure  seeing  her  she  could  not  but  he  certainly  had  not  seen  with  at  the  remarks  of  her  companions  on  her  of  mind  aroused  and  she  felt  the  necessity  of  appearing  like  they  entered  the  and  bidding  adieu  to  the  river  for  ascended  some  of  the  higher  grounds;  in  spots  the  opening  of  the  trees  gave  the  eye  power  to  were  charming  views  of  the  the  opposite  with  the  range  of  woods  overspreading  and  occasionally  part  of  stream.  mr.  gardiner  expressed  a  wish  of  going  round  the  but  feared  it  might  be  beyond  a  walk.  with  a  smile  they  were  told  that  it  was  ten  miles  round.  it  settled  matter;  and  they  pursued  the  accustomed  circuit;  which  them  after  some  in  a  descent  among  hanging  the  edge  of  the  and  one  of  its  narrowest  parts.  crossed  it  by  a  simple  in  character  with  the  general  of  the  scene;  it  was  a  spot  less  adorned  than  any  they  had  visited;  and  the  here  contracted  into  a  room  only  for  the  and  a  narrow  walk  amidst  the  wood  which  bordered  it.  elizabeth  longed  to  explore  windings;  but  when  they  had  crossed  the  and  their  distance  from  the  mrs.  who  was  not  a  could  go  no  and  thought  only  of  returning  to  carriage  as  quickly  as  possible.  her  niece  obliged  to  and  they  took  their  way  towards  the  house  the  opposite  side  of  the  in  the  nearest  direction;  their  progress  was  for  mr.  though  seldom  able  indulge  the  was  very  fond  of  and  was  so  engaged  in  watching  the  occasional  appearance  of  some  trout  the  and  talking  to  the  man  about  that  he  but  little.  whilst  wandering  on  in  this  slow  they  again  and  s  astonishment  was  quite  equal  what  it  had  been  at  by  the  sight  of  mr.  darcy  and  at  no  great  distance.  the  walk  being  here  sheltered  than  on  the  other  allowed  them  to  see  him  they  met.  however  was  at  least  prepared  for  an  interview  than  and  resolved  to  appear  to  speak  with  if  he  really  intended  to  meet  them.  for  few  she  felt  that  he  would  probably  strike  some  other  path.  the  idea  lasted  while  a  turning  in  the  concealed  him  from  their  view;  the  turning  he  immediately  before  them.  with  a  she  saw  that  he  had  none  of  his  recent  civility;  to  imitate  his  as  they  to  admire  the  beauty  of  the  place;  but  had  not  got  beyond  the  words  and  some  unlucky  recollections  and  she  fancied  that  of  pemberley  from  her  might  be  mischievously  construed.  colour  and  she  said  no  mrs.  gardiner  was  standing  a  little  behind;  and  on  her  he  asked  her  if  she  would  do  him  the  honour  of  introducing  him  her  friends.  this  was  a  stroke  of  civility  for  which  she  quite  unprepared;  and  she  could  hardly  suppress  a  smile  at  being  now  seeking  the  acquaintance  of  some  of  those  very  against  whom  his  pride  had  revolted  in  his  offer  to  what  will  be  his  thought  when  he  knows  who  are?  he  takes  them  now  for  people  of  the  was  immediately  made;  and  as  she  their  relationship  to  she  stole  a  sly  look  at  see  how  he  bore  and  was  not  without  the  expectation  of  decamping  as  fast  as  he  could  from  such  disgraceful  that  he  was  by  the  connection  was  evident;  sustained  with  and  so  far  from  turned  back  with  and  entered  into  conversation  mr.  gardiner.  elizabeth  could  not  but  be  could  not  triumph.  it  was  consoling  that  he  should  know  she  had  relations  for  whom  there  was  no  need  to  blush.  she  listened  attentively  to  all  that  passed  between  and  gloried  in  every  sentence  of  her  which  marked  his  or  his  good  the  conversation  soon  turned  upon  fishing;  and  she  heard  darcy  invite  with  the  greatest  to  fish  there  often  as  he  chose  while  he  continued  in  the  offering  at  the  same  time  to  supply  him  with  fishing  pointing  out  those  parts  of  the  stream  where  there  was  most  sport.  mrs.  who  was  walking  arm  gave  her  a  look  expressive  of  wonder.  elizabeth  but  it  gratified  her  exceedingly;  the  compliment  must  all  for  herself.  her  was  continually  was  she  why  is  he  so  altered?  from  can  it  proceed?  it  cannot  be  for  it  cannot  be  for  that  his  manners  are  thus  softened.  my  reproofs  at  hunsford  not  work  such  a  change  as  this.  it  is  impossible  that  he  still  love  after  walking  some  time  in  this  the  two  ladies  in  two  gentlemen  on  resuming  their  after  to  the  brink  of  the  river  for  the  better  inspection  of  curious  there  chanced  to  be  a  little  alteration.  originated  in  mrs.  fatigued  by  the  exercise  of  found  s  arm  inadequate  to  her  consequently  preferred  her  s.  mr.  darcy  took  her  place  her  and  they  walked  on  together.  after  a  short  the  lady  first  spoke.  she  wished  him  to  know  that  she  had  assured  of  his  absence  before  she  came  to  the  accordingly  began  by  that  his  arrival  had  been  for  your  she  informed  us  you  would  certainly  not  be  here  till  morrow;  and  before  we  left  we  understood  that  you  were  immediately  expected  in  the  he  acknowledged  the  of  it  and  said  that  business  with  his  steward  had  his  coming  forward  a  few  hours  before  the  rest  of  the  party  whom  he  had  been  travelling.  they  will  join  me  early  he  and  among  them  are  some  who  will  claim  acquaintance  with  mr.  bingley  and  his  elizabeth  answered  only  by  a  slight  bow.  her  thoughts  instantly  driven  back  to  the  time  when  mr.  s  name  been  the  last  mentioned  between  them;  if  she  might  judge  his  mind  was  not  very  differently  there  is  also  one  other  person  in  the  he  continued  a  who  more  particularly  wishes  to  be  known  to  you.  you  allow  or  do  i  ask  too  to  introduce  my  sister  your  acquaintance  during  your  stay  at  the  surprise  of  such  an  application  was  great  indeed;  it  was  great  for  her  to  know  in  what  manner  she  acceded  to  it.  immediately  felt  that  whatever  desire  miss  darcy  might  have  being  acquainted  with  her  must  be  the  work  of  her  without  looking  it  was  satisfactory;  it  was  to  know  that  his  resentment  had  not  made  him  think  really  ill  they  now  walked  on  in  each  of  them  deep  in  elizabeth  was  not  comfortable;  that  was  impossible;  but  she  flattered  and  pleased.  his  wish  of  introducing  his  sister  to  was  a  compliment  of  the  highest  kind.  they  soon  outstripped  and  when  they  had  reached  the  mr.  and  gardiner  were  half  a  quarter  of  a  mile  he  then  asked  her  to  walk  into  the  but  she  declared  not  and  they  stood  together  on  the  lawn.  at  such  a  much  might  have  been  and  silence  was  very  awkward.  wanted  to  but  there  seemed  to  be  an  embargo  on  subject.  at  last  she  recollected  that  she  had  been  and  they  talked  of  matlock  and  dove  dale  with  great  yet  time  and  her  aunt  moved  and  her  patience  and  her  were  nearly  worn  out  before  the  was  on  mr.  and  mrs.  s  coming  up  they  were  all  pressed  to  into  the  house  and  take  some  refreshment;  but  this  was  and  they  parted  on  each  side  with  utmost  politeness.  mr.  handed  the  ladies  into  the  carriage;  and  when  it  drove  elizabeth  saw  him  walking  slowly  towards  the  the  observations  of  her  uncle  and  aunt  now  began;  and  each  them  pronounced  him  to  be  infinitely  superior  to  anything  had  expected.  he  is  perfectly  well  said  her  there  something  a  little  stately  in  to  be  replied  her  but  it  is  confined  to  his  and  is  unbecoming.  i  can  now  say  with  the  that  though  people  may  call  him  have  seen  nothing  of  i  was  never  more  surprised  than  by  his  behaviour  to  us.  it  more  than  civil;  it  was  really  attentive;  and  there  was  necessity  for  such  attention.  his  acquaintance  with  elizabeth  very  to  be  said  her  he  is  not  so  handsome  wickham;  he  has  not  s  for  features  are  perfectly  good.  but  how  came  you  to  tell  me  that  was  so  elizabeth  excused  herself  as  well  as  she  could;  said  that  she  liked  him  better  when  they  had  met  in  kent  than  and  she  had  never  seen  him  so  pleasant  as  this  but  perhaps  he  may  be  a  little  whimsical  in  his  replied  her  uncle.  your  great  men  often  are;  and  therefore  shall  not  take  him  at  his  as  he  might  change  his  another  and  warn  me  off  his  elizabeth  felt  that  they  had  entirely  misunderstood  but  said  from  what  we  have  seen  of  continued  mrs.  really  should  not  have  thought  that  he  could  have  behaved  in  cruel  a  way  by  anybody  as  he  has  done  by  poor  wickham.  he  has  an  natured  look.  on  the  there  is  something  about  his  mouth  when  he  speaks.  and  there  is  something  of  in  his  countenance  that  would  not  give  one  an  unfavourable  of  his  heart.  to  be  the  good  lady  who  showed  us  house  did  give  him  a  most  flaming  character!  i  could  hardly  laughing  aloud  sometimes.  but  he  is  a  liberal  i  and  in  the  eye  of  a  servant  comprehends  every  elizabeth  here  felt  herself  called  on  to  say  something  vindication  of  his  behaviour  to  wickham;  and  therefore  gave  to  in  as  guarded  a  manner  as  she  that  by  she  had  heard  from  his  relations  in  his  actions  capable  of  a  very  different  construction;  and  that  his  was  by  no  means  so  nor  s  so  as  they  been  considered  in  hertfordshire.  in  confirmation  of  related  the  particulars  of  all  the  pecuniary  transactions  which  they  had  been  without  actually  naming  but  stating  it  to  be  such  as  might  be  relied  mrs.  gardiner  was  surprised  and  concerned;  but  as  they  were  approaching  the  scene  of  her  former  every  idea  way  to  the  charm  of  recollection;  and  she  was  too  much  engaged  pointing  out  to  her  husband  all  the  interesting  spots  in  environs  to  think  of  anything  else.  fatigued  as  she  had  been  the  s  walk  they  had  no  sooner  dined  than  she  set  again  in  quest  of  her  former  and  the  evening  spent  in  the  satisfactions  of  an  intercourse  renewed  after  the  occurrences  of  the  day  were  too  full  of  interest  to  elizabeth  much  attention  for  any  of  these  new  friends;  and  could  do  nothing  but  and  think  with  of  mr.  above  of  his  wishing  her  to  be  with  his  chapter  elizabeth  had  settled  it  that  mr.  darcy  would  bring  his  sister  visit  her  the  very  day  after  her  reaching  pemberley;  and  consequently  resolved  not  to  be  out  of  sight  of  the  inn  the  of  that  morning.  but  her  conclusion  was  false;  for  on  the  morning  after  their  arrival  at  these  visitors  came.  had  been  walking  about  the  place  with  some  of  their  new  and  were  just  returning  to  the  inn  to  dress  themselves  for  with  the  same  when  the  sound  of  a  carriage  drew  them  to  and  they  saw  a  gentleman  and  a  lady  in  a  curricle  up  the  street.  elizabeth  immediately  recognizing  the  guessed  what  it  and  imparted  no  small  degree  of  surprise  to  her  relations  by  acquainting  them  with  the  which  she  expected.  her  uncle  and  aunt  were  all  amazement;  the  embarrassment  of  her  manner  as  she  joined  to  circumstance  and  many  of  the  circumstances  of  preceding  opened  to  them  a  new  idea  on  the  business.  had  ever  suggested  it  but  they  felt  that  there  was  other  way  of  accounting  for  such  attentions  from  such  a  than  by  supposing  a  partiality  for  their  niece.  while  born  notions  were  passing  in  their  the  of  s  feelings  was  at  every  moment  increasing.  she  quite  amazed  at  her  own  discomposure;  but  amongst  other  causes  she  dreaded  lest  the  partiality  of  the  brother  have  said  too  much  in  her  favour;  more  than  commonly  to  she  naturally  suspected  that  every  power  of  would  fail  she  retreated  from  the  fearful  of  being  seen;  and  as  walked  up  and  down  the  endeavouring  to  compose  such  looks  of  enquiring  surprise  in  her  uncle  and  aunt  as  everything  miss  darcy  and  her  brother  and  this  introduction  took  place.  with  astonishment  did  elizabeth  see  her  new  acquaintance  was  at  least  as  much  embarrassed  as  since  her  being  at  she  had  heard  that  miss  darcy  exceedingly  proud;  but  the  observation  of  a  very  few  convinced  her  that  she  was  only  exceedingly  shy.  she  found  difficult  to  obtain  even  a  word  from  her  beyond  a  miss  darcy  was  and  on  a  larger  scale  than  elizabeth;  though  little  more  than  her  figure  was  and  appearance  womanly  and  graceful.  she  was  less  handsome  than  brother;  but  there  was  sense  and  good  humour  in  her  and  manners  were  perfectly  unassuming  and  gentle.  who  expected  to  find  in  her  as  acute  and  unembarrassed  an  observer  ever  mr.  darcy  had  was  much  relieved  by  discerning  different  they  had  not  long  been  together  before  mr.  darcy  told  her  bingley  was  also  coming  to  wait  on  her;  and  she  had  barely  to  express  her  and  prepare  for  such  a  s  quick  step  was  heard  on  the  and  in  a  moment  entered  the  room.  all  s  anger  against  him  had  been  done  away;  but  had  she  still  felt  it  could  hardly  have  its  ground  against  the  unaffected  cordiality  with  which  expressed  himself  on  seeing  her  again.  he  enquired  in  a  though  general  after  her  and  looked  and  spoke  the  same  humoured  ease  that  he  had  ever  to  mr.  and  mrs.  gardiner  he  was  scarcely  a  less  personage  than  to  herself.  they  had  long  wished  to  see  him.  whole  party  before  excited  a  lively  attention.  suspicions  which  had  just  arisen  of  mr.  darcy  and  their  directed  their  observation  towards  each  with  an  earnest  guarded  enquiry;  and  they  soon  drew  from  those  enquiries  the  conviction  that  one  of  them  at  least  knew  what  it  was  to  love.  the  s  sensations  they  remained  a  little  in  doubt;  but  the  gentleman  was  overflowing  with  admiration  was  evident  on  her  had  much  to  do.  she  wanted  to  the  feelings  of  each  of  her  visitors;  she  wanted  to  compose  and  to  make  herself  agreeable  to  all;  and  in  the  where  she  feared  most  to  she  was  most  sure  for  those  to  whom  she  endeavoured  to  give  pleasure  prepossessed  in  her  favour.  bingley  was  georgiana  and  darcy  to  be  in  seeing  her  thoughts  naturally  flew  to  her  oh!  how  ardently  did  she  long  to  know  whether  any  of  were  directed  in  a  like  manner.  sometimes  she  could  fancy  that  talked  less  than  on  former  and  once  or  twice  herself  with  the  notion  as  he  looked  at  he  was  to  trace  a  resemblance.  though  this  might  be  could  not  be  deceived  as  to  his  behaviour  to  miss  who  been  set  up  as  a  rival  to  jane.  no  look  appeared  on  either  that  spoke  particular  regard.  nothing  occurred  between  them  could  justify  the  hopes  of  his  sister.  on  this  point  she  was  satisfied;  and  two  or  three  little  circumstances  occurred  they  in  her  anxious  denoted  recollection  of  jane  not  untinctured  by  and  a  wish  saying  more  that  might  lead  to  the  mention  of  had  he  he  observed  to  at  a  moment  when  the  others  were  and  in  a  tone  which  had  something  of  real  it  was  a  very  long  time  since  he  had  had  the  pleasure  of  before  she  could  he  it  is  above  months.  we  have  not  met  since  the  26th  of  when  we  all  dancing  together  at  elizabeth  was  pleased  to  find  his  memory  so  exact;  and  afterwards  took  occasion  to  ask  when  unattended  to  by  any  the  whether  her  sisters  were  at  longbourn.  there  not  much  in  the  nor  in  the  preceding  remark;  but  was  a  look  and  a  manner  which  gave  them  it  was  not  often  that  she  could  turn  her  eyes  on  mr.  himself;  whenever  she  did  catch  a  she  saw  expression  of  general  and  in  all  that  he  said  heard  an  accent  so  removed  from  or  disdain  of  as  convinced  her  that  the  improvement  of  which  she  had  yesterday  witnessed  however  temporary  its  might  had  at  least  outlived  one  day.  when  she  saw  him  seeking  the  acquaintance  and  courting  the  good  opinion  of  with  whom  any  intercourse  a  few  months  ago  would  have  been  when  she  saw  him  thus  not  only  to  but  the  very  relations  whom  he  had  openly  and  their  last  lively  scene  in  hunsford  the  change  was  so  and  struck  so  forcibly  on  her  that  could  hardly  restrain  her  astonishment  from  being  visible.  even  in  the  company  of  his  dear  friends  at  or  dignified  relations  at  had  she  seen  him  so  desirous  so  free  from  consequence  or  unbending  when  no  importance  could  result  from  the  success  of  and  when  even  the  acquaintance  of  those  to  whom  attentions  were  addressed  would  draw  down  the  ridicule  censure  of  the  ladies  both  of  netherfield  and  their  visitors  stayed  with  them  above  hour;  and  when  arose  to  mr.  darcy  called  on  his  sister  to  join  him  expressing  their  wish  of  seeing  mr.  and  mrs.  and  to  dinner  at  before  they  left  the  miss  though  with  a  diffidence  which  marked  her  little  the  habit  of  giving  readily  obeyed.  mrs.  looked  at  her  desirous  of  knowing  how  whom  invitation  most  felt  disposed  as  to  its  but  elizabeth  had  turned  away  her  head.  presuming  this  studied  avoidance  spoke  rather  a  momentary  than  any  dislike  of  the  and  seeing  in  her  was  fond  of  a  perfect  willingness  to  accept  ventured  to  engage  for  her  and  the  day  after  the  was  fixed  bingley  expressed  great  pleasure  in  the  certainty  of  elizabeth  having  still  a  great  deal  to  say  to  many  enquiries  to  make  after  all  their  hertfordshire  construing  all  this  into  a  wish  of  hearing  her  of  her  was  and  on  this  as  well  as  found  when  their  visitors  left  capable  considering  the  last  hour  with  some  while  it  was  the  enjoyment  of  it  had  been  little.  to  be  and  fearful  of  enquiries  or  hints  from  her  uncle  she  stayed  with  them  only  long  enough  to  hear  favourable  opinion  of  and  then  hurried  away  to  but  she  had  no  reason  to  fear  mr.  and  mrs.  s  it  was  not  their  wish  to  force  her  communication.  it  was  that  she  was  much  better  acquainted  with  mr.  darcy  than  they  before  any  idea  of;  it  was  evident  that  he  was  very  much  in  with  her.  they  saw  much  to  but  nothing  to  of  mr.  darcy  it  was  now  a  matter  of  anxiety  to  think  well;  as  far  as  their  acquaintance  there  was  no  fault  to  they  could  not  be  untouched  by  his  politeness;  and  had  they  his  character  from  their  own  feelings  and  his  s  without  any  reference  to  any  other  the  circle  hertfordshire  to  which  he  was  known  would  not  have  recognized  for  mr.  darcy.  there  was  now  an  in  the  housekeeper;  and  they  soon  became  sensible  that  the  of  a  servant  who  had  known  him  since  he  was  four  years  whose  own  manners  indicated  was  not  to  be  rejected.  neither  had  anything  occurred  in  the  intelligence  their  lambton  friends  that  could  materially  lessen  its  they  had  nothing  to  accuse  him  of  but  pride;  pride  he  and  if  it  would  certainly  be  imputed  by  the  of  a  small  town  where  the  family  did  not  visit.  it  that  he  was  a  liberal  and  did  good  among  the  with  respect  to  the  travellers  soon  found  that  he  not  held  there  in  much  estimation;  for  though  the  chief  of  concerns  with  the  son  of  his  patron  were  imperfectly  it  was  yet  a  known  fact  on  his  quitting  had  left  many  debts  behind  which  mr.  darcy  as  for  her  thoughts  were  at  pemberley  this  more  than  the  last;  and  the  though  as  it  passed  seemed  was  not  long  enough  to  determine  her  towards  in  that  mansion;  and  she  lay  awake  two  whole  endeavouring  to  make  them  out.  she  certainly  did  not  hate  no;  hatred  had  vanished  long  and  she  had  almost  as  long  ashamed  of  ever  feeling  a  dislike  against  that  could  be  called.  the  respect  created  by  the  conviction  of  his  though  at  first  unwillingly  had  for  time  ceased  to  be  repugnant  to  her  feeling;  and  it  was  heightened  into  somewhat  of  a  friendlier  by  the  so  highly  in  his  and  bringing  forward  his  disposition  so  amiable  a  which  yesterday  had  produced.  but  above  above  respect  and  there  was  a  motive  within  her  goodwill  which  could  not  be  overlooked.  it  was  not  merely  for  having  once  loved  but  for  her  still  well  enough  to  forgive  all  the  petulance  and  of  her  manner  in  rejecting  and  all  the  unjust  accompanying  her  rejection.  he  she  had  been  avoid  her  as  his  greatest  on  this  most  eager  to  preserve  the  and  without  indelicate  display  of  or  any  peculiarity  of  their  two  selves  only  were  was  soliciting  the  opinion  of  her  and  bent  on  making  her  known  to  sister.  such  a  change  in  a  man  of  so  much  pride  exciting  not  astonishment  but  for  to  ardent  it  must  attributed;  and  as  such  its  impression  on  her  was  of  a  sort  to  as  by  no  means  though  it  could  not  exactly  defined.  she  she  she  was  grateful  she  felt  a  real  interest  in  his  welfare;  and  she  only  to  know  how  far  she  wished  that  welfare  to  depend  upon  and  how  far  it  would  be  for  the  happiness  of  both  that  she  employ  the  which  her  fancy  told  her  she  still  of  bringing  on  her  the  renewal  of  his  it  had  been  settled  in  the  evening  between  the  aunt  and  that  such  a  striking  civility  as  miss  s  in  coming  see  them  on  the  very  day  of  her  arrival  at  for  she  reached  it  only  to  a  late  ought  to  be  it  could  not  be  by  some  exertion  of  politeness  on  side;  that  it  would  be  highly  expedient  wait  on  her  at  pemberley  the  following  morning.  they  to  go.  elizabeth  was  pleased;  though  when  she  herself  the  she  had  very  little  to  say  in  mr.  gardiner  left  them  soon  after  breakfast.  the  fishing  had  been  renewed  the  day  and  a  positive  engagement  of  his  meeting  some  of  the  gentlemen  at  pemberley  before  chapter  convinced  as  elizabeth  now  was  that  miss  s  dislike  of  had  originated  in  she  could  not  help  feeling  unwelcome  her  appearance  at  pemberley  must  be  to  and  curious  to  know  with  how  much  civility  on  that  s  side  acquaintance  would  now  be  on  reaching  the  they  were  shown  through  the  hall  into  whose  northern  aspect  rendered  it  delightful  for  its  windows  opening  to  the  admitted  a  most  view  of  the  high  woody  hills  behind  the  and  of  beautiful  oaks  and  spanish  chestnuts  which  were  scattered  the  intermediate  in  this  house  they  were  received  by  miss  who  was  there  with  mrs.  hurst  and  miss  and  the  lady  with  she  lived  in  london.  s  reception  of  them  was  but  attended  with  all  the  embarrassment  proceeding  from  shyness  and  the  fear  of  doing  would  give  to  those  who  felt  themselves  inferior  the  belief  of  being  proud  and  reserved.  mrs.  gardiner  and  her  did  her  and  pitied  by  mrs.  hurst  and  miss  bingley  they  were  noticed  only  by  curtsey;  on  their  being  a  awkward  as  pauses  must  always  succeeded  for  a  few  moments.  it  was  broken  by  mrs.  a  looking  whose  endeavour  to  introduce  some  kind  of  discourse  proved  her  be  more  truly  bred  than  either  of  the  others;  and  her  and  mrs.  with  occasional  help  from  conversation  was  carried  on.  miss  darcy  looked  as  if  she  for  courage  enough  to  join  in  it;  and  sometimes  did  venture  short  sentence  when  there  was  least  danger  of  its  being  elizabeth  soon  saw  that  she  was  herself  closely  watched  by  and  that  she  could  not  speak  a  especially  to  without  calling  her  attention.  this  observation  would  have  prevented  her  from  trying  to  talk  to  the  had  not  been  seated  at  an  inconvenient  distance;  but  she  was  sorry  to  be  spared  the  necessity  of  saying  much.  her  own  were  employing  her.  she  expected  every  moment  that  some  of  gentlemen  would  enter  the  room.  she  she  feared  that  master  of  the  house  might  be  amongst  them;  and  whether  she  or  feared  it  she  could  scarcely  determine.  after  sitting  this  manner  a  quarter  of  an  hour  without  hearing  miss  elizabeth  was  roused  by  receiving  from  her  a  cold  after  the  health  of  her  family.  she  answered  with  indifference  and  and  the  other  said  no  the  next  variation  which  their  visit  afforded  was  produced  by  entrance  of  servants  with  cold  and  a  variety  of  the  finest  fruits  in  season;  but  this  did  not  take  place  after  many  a  significant  look  and  smile  from  mrs.  annesley  miss  darcy  had  been  to  remind  her  of  her  post.  there  now  employment  for  the  whole  for  though  they  could  not  they  could  all  eat;  and  the  beautiful  pyramids  of  and  peaches  soon  collected  them  round  the  while  thus  elizabeth  had  a  fair  opportunity  of  whether  she  most  feared  or  wished  for  the  appearance  of  by  the  feelings  which  prevailed  on  his  entering  the  and  though  but  a  moment  before  she  had  believed  her  to  she  began  to  regret  that  he  he  had  been  some  time  with  mr.  with  two  or  other  gentlemen  from  the  was  engaged  by  the  and  left  him  only  on  learning  that  the  ladies  of  the  family  a  visit  to  georgiana  that  morning.  no  sooner  did  he  appear  elizabeth  wisely  resolved  to  be  perfectly  easy  and  a  resolution  the  more  necessary  to  be  but  perhaps  not  more  easily  because  she  saw  that  the  suspicions  of  whole  party  were  awakened  against  and  that  there  scarcely  an  eye  which  did  not  watch  his  behaviour  when  he  came  into  the  room.  in  no  countenance  was  attentive  curiosity  strongly  marked  as  in  miss  in  spite  of  the  which  overspread  her  face  whenever  she  spoke  to  one  of  objects;  for  jealousy  had  not  yet  made  her  and  attentions  to  mr.  darcy  were  by  no  means  over.  miss  on  s  exerted  herself  much  more  to  elizabeth  saw  that  he  was  anxious  for  his  sister  and  herself  get  and  forwarded  as  much  as  every  at  conversation  on  either  side.  miss  bingley  saw  all  likewise;  in  the  imprudence  of  took  the  opportunity  of  with  sneering  miss  are  not  the  shire  militia  removed  meryton?  they  must  be  a  great  loss  to  in  s  presence  she  dared  not  mention  s  name;  elizabeth  instantly  comprehended  that  he  was  uppermost  in  thoughts;  and  the  various  recollections  connected  with  him  her  a  s  distress;  but  exerting  herself  vigorously  to  the  natured  she  presently  answered  the  question  in  tolerably  detached  tone.  while  she  an  involuntary  showed  her  with  a  heightened  earnestly  at  and  his  sister  overcome  with  and  unable  lift  up  her  eyes.  had  miss  bingley  known  what  pain  she  was  giving  her  beloved  she  undoubtedly  would  have  from  the  hint;  but  she  had  merely  intended  to  elizabeth  by  bringing  forward  the  idea  of  a  man  to  whom  believed  her  to  make  her  betray  a  sensibility  might  injure  her  in  s  to  remind  latter  of  all  the  follies  and  absurdities  by  which  some  part  her  family  were  connected  with  that  corps.  not  a  syllable  ever  reached  her  of  miss  s  meditated  elopement.  to  creature  had  it  been  where  secrecy  was  to  elizabeth;  and  from  all  s  connections  her  brother  particularly  anxious  to  conceal  from  the  very  wish  elizabeth  had  long  ago  attributed  to  of  their  hereafter  her  own.  he  had  certainly  formed  such  a  without  meaning  that  it  should  affect  his  endeavour  to  him  from  miss  it  is  probable  that  it  might  add  to  his  lively  concern  for  the  welfare  of  his  s  collected  soon  quieted  emotion;  and  as  miss  vexed  and  dared  approach  nearer  to  georgiana  also  recovered  in  though  not  enough  to  be  able  to  speak  any  more.  her  whose  eye  she  feared  to  scarcely  recollected  her  in  the  and  the  very  circumstance  which  had  been  to  turn  his  thoughts  from  elizabeth  seemed  to  have  fixed  them  her  more  and  more  their  visit  did  not  continue  long  after  the  question  and  above  mentioned;  and  while  mr.  darcy  was  attending  them  to  carriage  miss  bingley  was  venting  her  feelings  in  criticisms  s  and  dress.  but  georgiana  would  join  her.  her  s  recommendation  was  enough  to  ensure  favour;  his  judgement  could  not  err.  and  he  had  spoken  in  terms  of  elizabeth  as  to  leave  georgiana  without  the  power  finding  her  otherwise  than  lovely  and  amiable.  when  returned  to  the  miss  bingley  could  not  help  repeating  him  some  part  of  what  she  had  been  saying  to  his  how  very  ill  miss  eliza  bennet  looks  this  mr.  she  cried;  i  never  in  my  life  saw  anyone  so  much  altered  as  is  since  the  winter.  she  is  grown  so  brown  and  coarse!  louisa  i  were  agreeing  that  we  should  not  have  known  her  however  little  mr.  darcy  might  have  liked  such  an  contented  himself  with  coolly  replying  that  he  perceived  no  alteration  than  her  being  rather  no  consequence  of  travelling  in  the  for  my  own  she  i  must  confess  that  i  could  see  any  beauty  in  her.  her  face  is  too  thin;  her  has  no  brilliancy;  and  her  features  are  not  at  all  handsome.  nose  wants  there  is  nothing  marked  in  its  lines.  teeth  are  but  not  out  of  the  common  way;  and  as  her  which  have  sometimes  been  called  so  i  could  see  anything  extraordinary  in  them.  they  have  a  which  i  do  not  like  at  all;  and  in  her  air  altogether  is  a  sufficiency  without  which  is  persuaded  as  miss  bingley  was  that  darcy  admired  was  not  the  best  method  of  recommending  herself;  but  angry  are  not  always  wise;  and  in  seeing  him  at  last  look  she  had  all  the  success  she  expected.  he  was  from  a  determination  of  making  him  she  i  when  we  first  knew  her  in  how  we  all  were  to  find  that  she  was  a  reputed  beauty;  and  particularly  recollect  your  saying  one  after  they  had  dining  at  a  i  should  as  soon  call  mother  a  but  afterwards  she  seemed  to  improve  on  and  believe  you  thought  her  rather  pretty  at  one  replied  who  could  contain  himself  no  was  only  when  i  first  saw  for  it  is  many  months  i  have  considered  her  as  one  of  the  handsomest  women  of  he  then  went  and  miss  bingley  was  left  to  all  satisfaction  of  having  forced  him  to  say  what  gave  no  one  pain  but  mrs.  gardiner  and  elizabeth  talked  of  all  that  had  during  their  as  they  except  what  particularly  interested  them  both.  the  look  and  behaviour  everybody  they  had  seen  were  except  of  the  person  had  mostly  engaged  their  attention.  they  talked  of  his  his  his  his  of  everything  but  himself;  elizabeth  was  longing  to  know  what  mrs.  gardiner  thought  of  and  mrs.  gardiner  would  have  been  highly  gratified  by  her  beginning  the  chapter  elizabeth  had  been  a  good  deal  disappointed  in  not  finding  letter  from  jane  on  their  first  arrival  at  lambton;  and  disappointment  had  been  renewed  on  each  of  the  mornings  that  now  been  spent  there;  but  on  the  third  her  repining  was  her  sister  by  the  receipt  of  two  letters  from  her  on  one  of  which  was  marked  that  it  had  been  elsewhere.  elizabeth  was  not  surprised  at  as  jane  had  the  direction  remarkably  they  had  just  been  preparing  to  walk  as  the  letters  came  in;  her  uncle  and  leaving  her  to  enjoy  them  in  set  by  themselves.  the  one  missent  must  first  be  attended  to;  it  been  written  five  days  ago.  the  beginning  contained  an  account  all  their  little  parties  and  with  such  news  as  country  afforded;  but  the  latter  which  was  dated  a  and  written  in  evident  gave  more  intelligence.  it  was  to  this  since  writing  the  dearest  something  has  of  a  most  unexpected  and  serious  nature;  but  i  am  afraid  alarming  be  assured  that  we  are  all  well.  what  i  have  to  relates  to  poor  lydia.  an  express  came  at  twelve  last  as  we  were  all  gone  to  from  colonel  to  inform  that  she  was  gone  off  to  scotland  with  one  of  his  officers;  own  the  with  wickham!  imagine  our  surprise.  to  it  does  not  seem  so  wholly  unexpected.  i  am  sorry.  so  imprudent  a  match  on  both  sides!  but  i  am  willing  hope  the  and  that  his  character  has  been  thoughtless  and  indiscreet  i  can  easily  believe  but  step  (and  let  us  rejoice  over  it)  marks  nothing  bad  at  heart.  choice  is  disinterested  at  for  he  must  know  my  father  give  her  nothing.  our  poor  mother  is  sadly  grieved.  my  bears  it  better.  how  thankful  am  i  that  we  never  let  them  what  has  been  said  against  him;  we  must  forget  it  ourselves.  were  off  saturday  night  about  as  is  but  not  missed  till  yesterday  morning  at  eight.  the  express  was  off  directly.  my  dear  they  must  have  passed  within  miles  of  us.  colonel  forster  gives  us  reason  to  expect  him  soon.  lydia  left  a  few  lines  for  his  informing  her  of  intention.  i  must  for  i  cannot  be  long  from  my  mother.  i  am  afraid  you  will  not  be  able  to  make  it  but  hardly  know  what  i  have  without  allowing  herself  time  for  and  knowing  what  she  elizabeth  on  finishing  this  instantly  seized  the  and  opening  it  with  the  read  as  follows:  it  had  been  written  a  day  later  the  conclusion  of  the  by  this  my  dearest  you  have  received  my  letter;  i  wish  this  may  be  more  but  though  confined  for  my  head  is  so  bewildered  that  i  cannot  for  being  coherent.  dearest  i  hardly  know  what  i  but  i  have  bad  news  for  and  it  cannot  be  imprudent  as  the  marriage  between  mr.  wickham  and  our  poor  would  we  are  now  anxious  to  be  assured  it  has  taken  for  there  is  but  too  much  reason  to  fear  they  are  not  gone  scotland.  colonel  forster  came  having  left  the  day  not  many  hours  after  the  express.  though  short  letter  to  mrs.  f.  gave  them  to  understand  that  they  going  to  gretna  something  was  dropped  by  denny  his  belief  that  w.  never  intended  to  go  or  to  marry  at  which  was  repeated  to  colonel  instantly  the  set  off  from  b.  intending  to  trace  their  route.  he  trace  them  easily  to  but  no  further;  for  on  that  they  removed  into  a  hackney  and  dismissed  chaise  that  brought  them  from  epsom.  all  that  is  known  after  that  they  were  seen  to  continue  the  london  road.  i  know  what  to  think.  after  making  every  possible  enquiry  on  that  colonel  f.  came  on  into  anxiously  them  at  all  the  and  at  the  inns  in  barnet  but  without  any  no  such  people  had  been  seen  pass  through.  with  the  kindest  concern  he  came  on  to  and  broke  his  apprehensions  to  us  in  a  manner  most  creditable  his  heart.  i  am  sincerely  grieved  for  him  and  mrs.  but  no  can  throw  any  blame  on  them.  our  my  dear  is  great.  my  father  and  mother  believe  the  but  i  cannot  so  ill  of  him.  many  circumstances  might  make  it  more  eligible  them  to  be  married  privately  in  town  than  to  pursue  their  plan;  and  even  if  could  form  such  a  design  against  a  woman  of  s  which  is  not  can  i  her  so  lost  to  everything?  impossible!  i  grieve  to  that  colonel  f.  is  not  disposed  to  depend  upon  their  marriage;  shook  his  head  when  i  expressed  my  and  said  he  feared  was  not  a  man  to  be  trusted.  my  poor  mother  is  really  keeps  her  room.  could  she  exert  it  would  be  better;  this  is  not  to  be  expected.  and  as  to  my  i  never  in  life  saw  him  so  affected.  poor  kitty  has  anger  for  concealed  their  attachment;  but  as  it  was  a  matter  of  one  cannot  wonder.  i  am  truly  dearest  that  you  been  spared  something  of  these  distressing  scenes;  but  the  first  shock  is  shall  i  own  that  i  long  for  your  i  am  not  so  as  to  press  for  inconvenient.  adieu!  i  take  up  my  pen  again  to  do  what  i  just  told  you  i  would  not;  but  circumstances  are  such  that  cannot  help  earnestly  begging  you  all  to  come  here  as  soon  possible.  i  know  my  dear  uncle  and  aunt  so  that  i  am  afraid  of  requesting  though  i  have  still  something  more  ask  of  the  former.  my  father  is  going  to  london  with  forster  to  try  to  discover  her.  what  he  means  to  do  am  sure  i  know  not;  but  his  excessive  distress  will  not  allow  to  pursue  any  measure  in  the  best  and  safest  and  forster  is  obliged  to  be  at  brighton  again  morrow  evening.  such  an  my  s  advice  and  assistance  would  everything  in  the  world;  he  will  immediately  comprehend  what  must  and  i  rely  upon  his  oh!  where  is  my  cried  darting  from  seat  as  she  finished  the  in  eagerness  to  follow  without  losing  a  moment  of  the  time  so  precious;  but  as  reached  the  door  it  was  opened  by  a  and  mr.  appeared.  her  pale  face  and  impetuous  manner  made  him  before  he  could  recover  himself  to  in  whose  every  idea  was  superseded  by  s  i  beg  your  but  i  must  leave  you.  i  must  mr.  gardiner  this  on  business  that  cannot  be  delayed;  have  not  an  instant  to  good  god!  what  is  the  cried  with  more  feeling  politeness;  then  recollecting  i  will  not  detain  you  minute;  but  let  or  let  the  servant  go  after  mr.  and  gardiner.  you  are  not  well  enough;  you  cannot  go  elizabeth  but  her  knees  trembled  under  her  and  felt  how  little  would  be  gained  by  her  attempting  to  pursue  calling  back  the  she  commissioned  in  so  breathless  an  accent  as  made  her  almost  fetch  his  master  and  mistress  home  on  his  quitting  the  room  she  sat  unable  to  support  and  looking  so  miserably  that  it  was  impossible  for  darcy  leave  or  to  refrain  from  in  a  tone  of  gentleness  let  me  call  your  maid.  is  there  nothing  you  take  to  give  you  present  relief?  a  glass  of  wine;  shall  i  get  one?  you  are  very  i  thank  she  endeavouring  to  recover  there  is  nothing  the  matter  with  me.  i  am  quite  well;  i  am  distressed  by  some  dreadful  news  which  i  have  just  received  she  burst  into  tears  as  she  alluded  to  and  for  a  few  could  not  speak  another  word.  in  wretched  only  say  something  indistinctly  of  his  and  observe  in  compassionate  silence.  at  length  she  spoke  again.  i  have  had  a  letter  from  with  such  dreadful  news.  it  cannot  concealed  from  anyone.  my  younger  sister  has  left  all  has  eloped;  has  thrown  herself  into  the  power  of  wickham.  they  are  gone  off  together  from  brighton.  know  too  well  to  doubt  the  rest.  she  has  no  no  nothing  that  can  tempt  him  she  is  lost  for  darcy  was  fixed  in  astonishment.  when  i  she  added  a  yet  more  agitated  that  might  have  prevented  it!  who  knew  what  he  was.  had  i  but  explained  some  part  of  some  part  of  what  i  to  my  own  family!  had  character  been  this  could  not  have  happened.  but  it  all  too  late  i  am  grieved  cried  darcy;  shocked.  but  is  absolutely  yes!  they  left  brighton  together  on  sunday  and  traced  almost  to  but  not  beyond;  they  are  certainly  gone  to  and  what  has  been  what  has  been  to  my  father  is  gone  to  and  jane  has  written  to  beg  s  immediate  assistance;  and  we  shall  be  i  hour.  but  nothing  can  be  i  know  very  well  nothing  can  be  done.  how  is  such  a  man  to  be  worked  on?  how  they  even  to  be  discovered?  i  have  not  the  smallest  hope.  it  every  way  darcy  shook  his  head  in  silent  when  eyes  were  opened  to  his  real  oh!  had  i  what  i  what  i  dared  to  do!  but  i  knew  i  was  afraid  doing  too  much.  wretched  darcy  made  no  answer.  he  seemed  scarcely  to  hear  and  walking  up  and  down  the  room  in  earnest  his  his  air  gloomy.  elizabeth  soon  instantly  understood  it.  her  power  was  sinking;  everything  sink  under  such  a  proof  of  family  such  an  assurance  the  deepest  disgrace.  she  could  neither  wonder  nor  the  belief  of  his  conquest  brought  nothing  consolatory  her  afforded  no  palliation  of  her  distress.  it  on  exactly  calculated  to  make  her  understand  her  wishes;  and  never  had  she  so  honestly  felt  that  she  could  loved  as  when  all  love  must  be  but  though  it  would  could  not  engross  the  the  misery  she  was  bringing  on  them  soon  swallowed  up  every  private  care;  and  covering  her  face  her  elizabeth  was  soon  lost  to  everything  after  a  pause  of  several  was  only  recalled  to  sense  of  her  situation  by  the  voice  of  her  in  manner  though  it  spoke  spoke  i  am  afraid  you  have  been  long  desiring  nor  have  i  anything  to  plead  in  excuse  of  my  though  unavailing  concern.  would  to  heaven  that  could  be  either  said  or  done  on  my  part  that  might  consolation  to  such  distress!  but  i  will  not  torment  you  vain  which  may  seem  purposely  to  ask  for  your  this  unfortunate  affair  i  prevent  my  s  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you  at  pemberley  yes.  be  so  kind  as  to  apologise  for  us  to  miss  darcy.  that  urgent  business  calls  us  home  immediately.  conceal  unhappy  truth  as  long  as  it  is  i  know  it  cannot  he  readily  assured  her  of  his  secrecy;  again  expressed  his  for  her  wished  it  a  happier  conclusion  than  there  at  present  reason  to  and  leaving  his  compliments  for  with  only  one  parting  went  as  he  quitted  the  elizabeth  felt  how  improbable  it  was  they  should  ever  see  each  other  again  on  such  terms  of  as  had  marked  their  several  meetings  in  derbyshire;  and  as  threw  a  retrospective  glance  over  the  whole  of  so  full  of  contradictions  and  sighed  the  perverseness  of  those  feelings  which  would  now  have  its  and  would  formerly  have  rejoiced  in  if  gratitude  and  esteem  are  good  foundations  of  s  change  of  sentiment  will  be  neither  improbable  faulty.  but  if  if  regard  springing  from  such  sources  unreasonable  or  in  comparison  of  what  is  so  described  as  arising  on  a  first  interview  with  its  even  before  two  words  have  been  nothing  can  be  said  her  except  that  she  had  given  somewhat  of  a  trial  to  latter  method  in  her  partiality  for  and  that  its  success  authorise  her  to  seek  the  other  interesting  mode  of  attachment.  be  that  as  it  she  saw  him  with  regret;  and  in  this  early  example  of  what  s  must  found  additional  anguish  as  she  reflected  on  wretched  business.  since  reading  s  second  she  entertained  a  hope  of  s  meaning  to  marry  her.  no  but  she  could  flatter  herself  with  such  expectation.  surprise  was  the  least  of  her  feelings  on  development.  while  the  contents  of  the  first  letter  remained  her  she  was  all  all  astonishment  that  should  marry  a  girl  whom  it  was  impossible  he  could  marry  money;  and  how  lydia  could  ever  have  attached  him  had  incomprehensible.  but  now  it  was  all  too  natural.  for  such  attachment  as  this  she  might  have  sufficient  charms;  and  she  did  not  suppose  lydia  to  be  deliberately  engaging  in  elopement  without  the  intention  of  she  had  difficulty  in  believing  that  neither  her  virtue  nor  understanding  would  preserve  her  from  falling  an  easy  she  had  never  while  the  regiment  was  in  that  lydia  had  any  partiality  for  him;  but  she  was  convinced  lydia  wanted  only  encouragement  to  attach  herself  to  sometimes  one  sometimes  had  been  her  as  their  attentions  raised  them  in  her  opinion.  her  had  continually  been  fluctuating  but  never  without  an  object.  mischief  of  neglect  and  mistaken  indulgence  towards  such  oh!  how  acutely  did  she  now  feel  she  was  wild  to  be  at  to  to  to  be  upon  the  to  share  with  jane  in  the  cares  that  must  now  fall  wholly  in  a  family  so  a  father  a  mother  of  and  requiring  constant  attendance;  and  though  persuaded  that  nothing  could  be  done  for  her  interference  seemed  of  the  utmost  and  till  he  the  room  her  impatience  was  severe.  mr.  and  mrs.  gardiner  hurried  back  in  supposing  by  the  s  account  their  niece  was  taken  suddenly  ill;  but  satisfying  them  on  that  she  eagerly  communicated  the  cause  of  reading  the  two  letters  and  dwelling  on  postscript  of  the  last  with  trembling  though  lydia  never  been  a  favourite  with  mr.  and  mrs.  gardiner  could  but  be  deeply  afflicted.  not  lydia  but  all  were  in  it;  and  after  the  first  exclamations  of  surprise  and  mr.  gardiner  promised  every  assistance  in  his  power.  though  expecting  no  thanked  him  with  tears  of  and  all  three  being  actuated  by  one  everything  to  their  journey  was  speedily  settled.  they  were  to  be  off  soon  as  possible.  but  what  is  to  be  done  about  mrs.  gardiner.  john  told  us  mr.  darcy  was  here  when  you  sent  us;  was  it  yes;  and  i  told  him  we  should  not  be  able  to  keep  engagement.  is  all  that  is  all  repeated  the  as  she  ran  into  room  to  prepare.  and  are  they  upon  such  terms  as  for  her  disclose  the  real  truth?  that  i  knew  how  it  but  wishes  were  or  at  least  could  only  serve  to  amuse  in  the  hurry  and  confusion  of  the  following  hour.  had  been  at  leisure  to  be  she  would  have  remained  certain  all  employment  was  impossible  to  one  so  wretched  as  herself;  she  had  her  share  of  business  as  well  as  her  and  the  rest  there  were  notes  to  be  written  to  all  their  friends  with  false  excuses  for  their  sudden  departure.  an  saw  the  whole  completed;  and  mr.  gardiner  having  settled  his  account  at  the  nothing  remained  to  done  but  to  go;  and  after  all  the  misery  of  found  in  a  shorter  space  of  time  than  she  have  seated  in  the  and  on  the  road  chapter  i  have  been  thinking  it  over  said  her  as  they  drove  from  the  town;  and  upon  i  am  much  more  inclined  than  i  was  to  judge  your  eldest  sister  does  on  the  matter.  it  appears  to  me  so  unlikely  that  any  young  man  should  form  such  a  design  against  girl  who  is  by  no  means  unprotected  or  and  who  actually  staying  in  his  s  that  i  am  inclined  to  hope  the  best.  could  he  expect  that  her  friends  not  step  forward?  could  he  expect  to  be  noticed  again  by  after  such  an  affront  to  colonel  forster?  temptation  is  not  adequate  to  the  do  you  really  think  cried  brightening  up  for  upon  my  said  mrs.  i  begin  to  be  of  s  opinion.  it  is  really  too  great  a  violation  of  and  for  him  to  be  guilty  of.  i  cannot  think  very  ill  of  wickham.  can  you  so  wholly  give  as  to  believe  him  capable  of  of  neglecting  his  own  interest;  but  of  every  neglect  i  can  believe  him  capable.  it  should  be  but  i  dare  not  hope  it.  why  should  they  not  go  on  to  scotland  that  had  been  the  in  the  first  replied  mr.  there  is  no  proof  that  they  are  not  gone  to  oh!  but  their  removing  from  the  chaise  into  a  hackney  coach  such  a  presumption!  no  traces  of  them  were  to  found  on  the  barnet  supposing  them  to  be  in  london.  they  may  be  though  for  the  purpose  of  for  no  more  purpose.  it  is  not  likely  that  money  should  be  very  abundant  either  side;  and  it  might  strike  them  that  they  could  be  though  less  married  in  london  in  but  why  all  this  secrecy?  why  any  fear  of  detection?  why  their  marriage  be  private?  this  is  not  likely.  most  particular  you  see  by  s  was  of  his  never  intending  to  marry  her.  wickham  will  never  marry  woman  without  some  money.  he  cannot  afford  it.  and  what  has  what  attraction  has  she  beyond  and  humour  that  could  make  for  her  forego  every  chance  benefiting  himself  by  marrying  well?  as  to  what  restraint  apprehensions  of  disgrace  in  the  corps  might  throw  on  dishonourable  elopement  with  i  am  not  able  to  judge;  for  know  nothing  of  the  effects  that  such  a  step  might  produce.  as  to  your  other  i  am  afraid  it  will  hardly  hold  lydia  has  no  brothers  to  step  forward;  and  he  might  my  s  from  his  indolence  and  the  attention  he  has  ever  seemed  to  give  to  what  was  going  forward  his  that  would  do  as  and  think  as  about  as  any  father  could  in  such  a  but  can  you  think  that  lydia  is  so  lost  to  everything  but  of  him  as  to  consent  to  live  with  him  on  any  terms  other  it  does  and  it  is  most  shocking  with  tears  in  her  that  a  s  sense  decency  and  virtue  in  such  a  point  should  admit  of  doubt.  i  know  not  what  to  say.  perhaps  i  am  not  doing  justice.  but  she  is  very  young;  she  has  never  been  taught  think  on  serious  subjects;  and  for  the  last  for  she  has  been  given  up  to  nothing  but  amusement  vanity.  she  has  been  allowed  to  dispose  of  her  time  in  the  idle  and  frivolous  and  to  adopt  any  opinions  that  came  her  way.  since  the  shire  were  first  quartered  in  nothing  but  and  officers  have  been  in  her  she  has  been  doing  everything  in  her  power  by  thinking  talking  on  the  to  give  what  shall  i  call  susceptibility  to  her  feelings;  which  are  naturally  enough.  and  we  all  know  that  wickham  has  every  charm  of  and  address  that  can  captivate  a  but  you  see  that  said  her  does  not  think  so  ill  of  wickham  as  to  believe  him  capable  of  the  of  whom  does  jane  ever  think  ill?  and  who  is  might  be  their  former  that  she  would  think  capable  such  an  till  it  were  proved  against  them?  but  as  well  as  i  what  wickham  really  is.  we  both  know  he  has  been  profligate  in  every  sense  of  the  word;  that  he  neither  integrity  nor  honour;  that  he  is  as  false  and  as  he  is  and  do  you  really  know  all  cried  mrs.  curiosity  as  to  the  mode  of  her  intelligence  was  all  i  do  replied  colouring.  i  told  other  of  his  infamous  behaviour  to  mr.  darcy;  and  when  last  at  heard  in  what  manner  he  of  the  man  who  had  behaved  with  such  forbearance  and  towards  him.  and  there  are  other  circumstances  which  i  am  not  which  it  is  not  worth  while  to  relate;  but  his  lies  the  whole  pemberley  family  are  endless.  from  what  he  said  of  darcy  i  was  thoroughly  prepared  to  see  a  disagreeable  girl.  yet  he  knew  to  the  contrary  himself.  he  know  that  she  was  as  amiable  and  unpretending  as  we  have  but  does  lydia  know  nothing  of  this?  can  she  be  ignorant  of  you  and  jane  seem  so  well  to  that  is  the  worst  of  all.  till  i  was  in  saw  so  much  both  of  mr.  darcy  and  his  relation  i  was  ignorant  of  the  truth  myself.  and  when  returned  the  shire  was  to  leave  meryton  in  a  week  s  time.  as  that  was  the  neither  to  whom  related  the  nor  thought  it  necessary  to  make  knowledge  public;  for  of  what  use  could  it  apparently  be  to  that  the  good  opinion  which  all  the  neighbourhood  had  of  should  then  be  overthrown?  and  even  when  it  was  settled  lydia  should  go  with  mrs.  the  necessity  of  opening  eyes  to  his  character  never  occurred  to  me.  that  could  in  any  danger  from  the  deception  never  entered  my  head.  that  a  consequence  as  could  you  may  easily  far  enough  from  my  when  they  all  removed  to  you  had  no  i  to  believe  them  fond  of  each  not  the  slightest.  i  can  remember  no  symptom  of  affection  either  side;  and  had  anything  of  the  kind  been  must  be  aware  that  ours  is  not  a  family  on  which  it  could  thrown  away.  when  first  he  entered  the  she  was  enough  to  admire  him;  but  so  we  all  were.  every  girl  in  or  meryton  was  out  of  her  senses  about  him  for  the  first  two  but  he  never  distinguished  by  any  particular  after  a  moderate  period  of  extravagant  wild  her  fancy  for  him  gave  and  others  of  who  treated  her  with  more  again  became  it  may  be  easily  that  however  little  of  novelty  be  added  to  their  and  on  interesting  by  its  repeated  no  other  detain  them  from  it  during  the  whole  of  the  journey.  s  thoughts  it  was  never  absent.  fixed  there  by  keenest  of  all  she  could  find  no  of  ease  or  they  travelled  as  expeditiously  as  sleeping  night  on  the  reached  longbourn  by  dinner  time  the  next  it  was  a  comfort  to  elizabeth  to  consider  that  jane  could  have  been  wearied  by  long  the  little  attracted  by  the  sight  of  a  standing  on  the  steps  of  the  house  as  they  entered  the  when  the  carriage  drove  up  to  the  the  joyful  that  lighted  up  their  and  displayed  itself  over  whole  in  a  variety  of  capers  and  was  the  pleasing  earnest  of  their  elizabeth  jumped  out;  after  giving  each  of  them  a  hurried  into  the  where  who  came  down  from  her  s  immediately  met  as  she  affectionately  embraced  whilst  filled  the  eyes  of  lost  not  a  moment  in  asking  anything  had  been  heard  of  the  not  replied  jane.  but  now  that  my  dear  uncle  is  hope  everything  will  be  is  my  father  in  he  went  on  as  i  wrote  you  and  have  you  heard  from  him  we  have  heard  only  twice.  he  wrote  me  a  few  lines  on  to  say  that  he  had  arrived  in  and  to  give  me  which  i  particularly  begged  him  to  do.  he  added  that  he  should  not  write  again  till  he  had  something  importance  to  and  my  how  is  she?  how  are  you  my  mother  is  tolerably  i  trust;  though  her  spirits  greatly  shaken.  she  is  up  stairs  and  will  have  great  in  seeing  you  all.  she  does  not  yet  leave  her  room.  and  thank  are  quite  but  how  are  cried  elizabeth.  you  look  pale.  how  you  must  have  gone  her  assured  her  of  her  being  perfectly  well;  their  which  had  been  passing  while  mr.  and  gardiner  were  engaged  with  their  was  now  put  an  end  by  the  approach  of  the  whole  party.  jane  ran  to  her  uncle  and  welcomed  and  thanked  them  with  alternate  and  when  they  were  all  in  the  the  questions  elizabeth  had  already  asked  were  of  course  repeated  by  and  they  soon  found  that  jane  had  no  intelligence  give.  the  sanguine  hope  of  which  the  of  her  heart  suggested  had  not  yet  deserted  her;  she  expected  that  it  would  all  end  and  that  every  morning  bring  some  either  from  lydia  or  her  to  their  announce  their  mrs.  to  whose  apartment  they  all  after  a  conversation  received  them  exactly  as  might  expected;  with  tears  and  lamentations  of  against  the  villainous  conduct  of  and  complaints  of  own  sufferings  and  usage;  blaming  everybody  but  the  person  whose  judging  indulgence  the  errors  of  her  daughter  principally  be  if  i  had  been  said  to  carry  my  point  in  going  with  all  my  would  not  have  happened;  poor  dear  lydia  had  nobody  to  take  care  of  her.  why  did  forsters  ever  let  her  go  out  of  their  sight?  i  am  sure  there  some  great  neglect  or  other  on  their  for  she  is  not  kind  of  girl  to  do  such  a  thing  if  she  had  been  well  after.  i  always  thought  they  were  very  unfit  to  have  the  of  her;  but  i  was  as  i  always  am.  poor  dear  child!  now  s  mr.  bennet  gone  and  i  know  he  will  wherever  he  meets  him  and  then  he  will  be  what  is  to  become  of  us  all?  the  collinses  will  turn  us  before  he  is  cold  in  his  and  if  you  are  not  kind  to  i  do  not  know  what  we  shall  they  all  exclaimed  against  such  terrific  ideas;  and  mr.  after  general  assurances  of  his  affection  for  her  and  all  told  her  that  he  meant  to  be  in  london  the  very  next  and  would  assist  mr.  bennet  in  every  endeavour  for  do  not  give  way  to  useless  added  he;  though  it  is  to  be  prepared  for  the  there  is  no  occasion  to  look  on  as  certain.  it  is  not  quite  a  week  since  they  left  brighton.  in  few  days  more  we  may  gain  some  news  of  them;  and  till  we  that  they  are  not  and  have  no  design  of  do  let  us  give  the  matter  over  as  lost.  as  soon  as  i  get  to  town  shall  go  to  my  and  make  him  come  home  with  me  gracechurch  street;  and  then  we  may  consult  together  as  to  is  to  be  oh!  my  dear  replied  mrs.  that  is  exactly  i  could  most  wish  for.  and  now  when  you  get  to  them  wherever  they  may  be;  and  if  they  are  not  them  marry.  and  as  for  wedding  do  let  them  wait  for  but  tell  lydia  she  shall  have  as  money  as  she  chooses  to  buy  after  they  are  married.  above  keep  mr.  bennet  from  fighting.  tell  him  what  dreadful  state  i  am  that  i  am  frighted  out  of  my  have  such  such  all  over  such  in  my  side  and  pains  in  my  and  such  beatings  at  i  can  get  no  rest  by  night  nor  by  day.  and  tell  my  dear  lydia  to  give  any  directions  about  her  clothes  till  she  has  seen  for  she  does  not  know  which  are  the  best  warehouses.  how  kind  you  are!  i  know  you  will  contrive  it  but  mr.  though  he  assured  her  again  of  his  endeavours  in  the  could  not  avoid  recommending  to  as  well  in  her  hopes  as  her  fear;  and  after  talking  her  in  this  manner  till  dinner  was  on  the  they  all  her  to  vent  all  her  feelings  on  the  who  attended  the  absence  of  her  though  her  brother  and  sister  were  persuaded  that  there  was  real  occasion  for  such  a  seclusion  from  the  they  did  attempt  to  oppose  for  they  knew  that  she  had  not  enough  to  hold  her  tongue  before  the  while  they  at  and  judged  it  better  that  only  of  the  and  the  one  whom  they  could  most  trust  should  comprehend  all  fears  and  solicitude  on  the  in  the  room  they  were  soon  joined  by  mary  and  had  been  too  busily  engaged  in  their  separate  apartments  to  their  appearance  before.  one  came  from  her  and  the  from  her  toilette.  the  faces  of  were  calm;  and  no  change  was  visible  in  except  that  the  of  her  favourite  or  the  anger  which  she  had  incurred  in  this  had  given  more  of  fretfulness  usual  to  the  accents  of  kitty.  as  for  she  was  enough  of  herself  to  whisper  to  with  a  countenance  grave  soon  after  they  were  seated  at  this  is  a  most  unfortunate  and  will  probably  be  talked  of.  but  we  must  stem  the  tide  of  and  pour  into  wounded  bosoms  of  each  other  the  balm  of  sisterly  perceiving  in  elizabeth  no  inclination  of  unhappy  as  the  event  must  be  for  we  may  draw  it  this  useful  lesson:  that  loss  of  virtue  in  a  female  irretrievable;  that  one  false  step  involves  her  in  endless  that  her  reputation  is  no  less  brittle  than  it  is  beautiful;  that  she  cannot  be  too  much  guarded  in  her  behaviour  towards  undeserving  of  the  other  elizabeth  lifted  up  her  eyes  in  but  was  too  oppressed  to  make  any  reply.  continued  to  herself  with  such  kind  of  moral  extractions  from  the  evil  in  the  the  two  elder  miss  bennets  were  able  to  be  hour  by  themselves;  and  elizabeth  instantly  herself  of  the  opportunity  of  making  many  which  was  equally  eager  to  satisfy.  after  joining  in  lamentations  over  the  dreadful  sequel  of  this  elizabeth  considered  as  all  but  and  miss  bennet  not  assert  to  be  wholly  the  former  continued  by  but  tell  me  all  and  everything  about  which  i  have  not  already  heard.  give  me  further  particulars.  did  colonel  forster  say?  had  they  no  apprehension  of  before  the  elopement  took  place?  they  must  have  seen  together  for  colonel  forster  did  own  that  he  had  often  suspected  especially  on  s  but  nothing  to  give  any  alarm.  i  am  so  grieved  for  him!  his  behaviour  was  and  kind  to  the  utmost.  he  coming  to  in  order  to  us  of  his  before  he  had  any  idea  of  their  not  being  to  scotland:  when  that  apprehension  first  got  it  his  and  was  denny  convinced  that  wickham  would  not  marry?  did  know  of  their  intending  to  go  off?  had  colonel  forster  seen  yes;  when  questioned  by  denny  denied  anything  of  their  and  would  not  give  his  real  about  it.  he  did  not  repeat  his  persuasion  of  their  and  from  i  am  inclined  to  he  might  been  misunderstood  and  till  colonel  forster  came  not  one  of  entertained  a  i  of  their  being  really  how  was  it  possible  that  such  an  idea  should  enter  our  brains?  felt  a  little  a  little  fearful  of  my  s  with  him  in  because  i  knew  that  his  conduct  had  been  always  quite  right.  my  father  and  mother  knew  nothing  that;  they  only  felt  how  imprudent  a  match  it  must  be.  kitty  with  a  very  natural  triumph  on  knowing  more  than  the  of  that  in  s  last  letter  she  had  prepared  her  for  a  step.  she  had  it  of  their  being  in  love  with  many  but  not  before  they  went  to  i  believe  and  did  colonel  forster  appear  to  think  well  of  wickham  does  he  know  his  real  i  must  confess  that  he  did  not  speak  so  well  of  wickham  as  formerly  did.  he  believed  him  to  be  imprudent  and  and  since  this  sad  affair  has  taken  it  is  said  that  left  meryton  greatly  in  debt;  but  i  hope  this  may  be  had  we  been  less  had  we  told  what  we  knew  this  could  not  have  perhaps  it  would  have  been  replied  her  sister.  but  expose  the  former  faults  of  any  person  without  knowing  what  present  feelings  seemed  unjustifiable.  we  acted  with  best  could  colonel  forster  repeat  the  particulars  of  s  note  his  he  brought  it  with  him  for  us  to  jane  then  took  it  from  her  and  gave  it  to  these  were  the  my  dear  you  will  laugh  when  you  know  where  i  am  and  i  cannot  laughing  myself  at  your  surprise  morrow  as  soon  as  am  missed.  i  am  going  to  gretna  and  if  you  cannot  with  i  shall  think  you  a  for  there  is  but  one  in  the  world  i  and  he  is  an  angel.  i  should  never  be  without  so  think  it  no  harm  to  be  off.  you  need  not  them  word  at  longbourn  of  my  if  you  do  not  like  for  will  make  the  surprise  the  when  i  write  to  them  and  my  name  lydia  what  a  good  joke  it  will  be!  i  hardly  write  for  laughing.  pray  make  my  excuses  to  pratt  for  keeping  my  and  dancing  with  him  night.  tell  him  hope  he  will  excuse  me  when  he  knows  all;  and  tell  him  i  dance  with  him  at  the  next  ball  we  with  great  pleasure.  shall  send  for  my  clothes  when  i  get  to  longbourn;  but  i  wish  would  tell  sally  to  mend  a  great  slit  in  my  worked  muslin  before  they  are  packed  up.  bye.  give  my  love  to  forster.  i  hope  you  will  drink  to  our  good  your  affectionate  lydia  oh!  thoughtless  cried  elizabeth  when  had  finished  it.  what  a  letter  is  to  be  written  at  such  moment!  but  at  least  it  shows  that  was  serious  on  subject  of  their  journey.  whatever  he  might  afterwards  her  it  was  not  on  her  side  a  of  infamy.  my  father!  how  he  must  have  felt  i  never  saw  anyone  so  shocked.  he  could  not  speak  a  word  full  ten  minutes.  my  mother  was  taken  ill  and  whole  house  in  such  oh!  cried  was  there  a  servant  belonging  to  who  did  not  know  the  whole  story  before  the  end  of  the  i  do  not  know.  i  hope  there  was.  but  to  be  guarded  at  such  time  is  very  difficult.  my  mother  was  in  and  though  endeavoured  to  give  her  every  assistance  in  my  i  am  i  did  not  do  so  much  as  i  might  have  done!  but  the  horror  of  might  possibly  happen  almost  took  from  me  my  your  attendance  upon  her  has  been  too  much  for  you.  you  do  look  well.  oh  that  i  had  been  with  you!  you  have  had  every  and  anxiety  upon  yourself  mary  and  kitty  have  been  very  and  would  have  shared  every  i  am  sure;  but  i  did  not  think  it  right  for  of  them.  kitty  is  slight  and  delicate;  and  mary  studies  so  that  her  hours  of  repose  should  not  be  broken  in  on.  my  phillips  came  to  longbourn  on  after  my  father  went  and  was  so  good  as  to  stay  till  thursday  with  me.  she  was  great  use  and  comfort  to  us  all.  and  lady  lucas  has  been  kind;  she  walked  here  on  wednesday  morning  to  condole  with  and  offered  her  or  any  of  her  if  should  be  of  use  to  she  had  better  have  stayed  at  cried  elizabeth;  she  under  such  a  misfortune  as  cannot  see  too  little  of  s  neighbours.  assistance  impossible;  condolence  insufferable.  let  them  triumph  over  us  a  and  be  she  then  proceeded  to  enquire  into  the  measures  which  her  had  intended  to  while  in  for  the  recovery  of  he  meant  i  replied  to  go  to  the  where  they  last  changed  see  the  postilions  and  try  anything  could  be  made  out  from  them.  his  principal  object  be  to  discover  the  number  of  the  hackney  coach  which  took  from  clapham.  it  had  come  with  a  fare  from  london;  and  as  thought  that  the  circumstance  of  a  gentleman  and  s  from  one  carriage  into  another  might  be  remarked  he  meant  to  enquiries  at  clapham.  if  he  could  anyhow  discover  at  what  the  coachman  had  before  set  down  his  he  determined  to  enquiries  and  hoped  it  might  not  be  impossible  to  find  the  stand  and  number  of  the  coach.  i  do  not  know  of  any  designs  that  he  had  formed;  but  he  was  in  such  a  hurry  to  and  his  spirits  so  greatly  that  i  difficulty  in  finding  out  even  so  much  as  chapter  the  whole  party  were  in  hopes  of  a  letter  from  mr.  bennet  next  but  the  post  came  in  without  bringing  a  single  from  him.  his  family  knew  him  to  on  all  common  most  negligent  and  dilatory  correspondent;  but  at  such  a  they  had  hoped  for  exertion.  they  were  forced  to  conclude  that  had  no  pleasing  intelligence  to  send;  but  even  of  would  have  been  glad  to  be  certain.  mr.  gardiner  had  waited  for  the  letters  before  he  set  when  he  was  they  were  certain  at  least  of  constant  information  of  what  was  going  and  their  at  to  prevail  on  mr.  bennet  to  return  as  soon  as  he  to  the  great  consolation  of  who  considered  it  as  the  only  security  for  her  not  being  killed  in  a  mrs.  gardiner  and  the  children  were  to  remain  in  hertfordshire  few  days  as  the  former  thought  her  presence  might  serviceable  to  her  nieces.  she  shared  in  their  attendance  on  and  was  a  great  comfort  to  them  in  their  hours  freedom.  their  other  aunt  also  visited  them  as  she  with  the  design  of  cheering  and  them  as  she  never  came  without  reporting  some  instance  of  s  extravagance  or  she  went  away  without  leaving  them  more  dispirited  than  she  all  meryton  seemed  striving  to  blacken  the  man  but  months  had  been  almost  an  angel  of  light.  he  was  to  be  in  debt  to  every  tradesman  in  the  and  his  all  honoured  with  the  title  of  had  been  extended  every  s  family.  everybody  declared  that  he  was  wickedest  young  man  in  the  world;  and  everybody  began  to  find  that  they  had  always  distrusted  the  appearance  of  his  though  she  did  not  credit  above  half  of  what  was  believed  enough  to  make  her  former  assurance  of  her  s  more  certain;  and  even  who  believed  still  less  of  became  almost  more  especially  as  the  time  was  now  if  they  had  gone  to  which  she  had  never  entirely  despaired  they  must  in  all  probability  have  some  news  of  mr.  gardiner  left  longbourn  on  sunday;  on  tuesday  his  received  a  letter  from  him;  it  told  them  on  his  had  immediately  found  out  his  and  persuaded  him  to  to  gracechurch  street;  that  mr.  bennet  had  been  to  epsom  before  his  but  without  gaining  any  information;  and  that  he  was  now  determined  to  enquire  at  all  principal  hotels  in  as  mr.  bennet  thought  it  possible  might  have  gone  to  one  of  on  their  first  coming  to  before  they  procured  lodgings.  mr.  gardiner  himself  did  expect  any  success  from  this  but  as  his  brother  eager  in  he  meant  to  assist  him  in  pursuing  it.  he  added  mr.  bennet  seemed  wholly  disinclined  at  present  to  leave  and  promised  to  write  again  very  soon.  there  was  also  postscript  to  this  i  have  written  to  colonel  forster  to  desire  him  to  find  from  some  of  the  young  s  intimates  in  the  whether  wickham  has  any  relations  or  connections  who  would  likely  to  know  in  what  part  of  town  he  has  now  concealed  if  there  were  anyone  that  one  could  apply  to  with  a  of  gaining  such  a  clue  as  it  might  be  of  consequence.  at  present  we  have  nothing  to  guide  us.  forster  i  dare  do  everything  in  his  power  to  us  on  this  head.  on  second  lizzy  tell  us  what  relations  he  has  now  better  than  any  elizabeth  was  at  no  loss  to  understand  from  whence  this  to  her  authority  proceeded;  but  it  was  not  in  her  power  to  any  information  of  so  satisfactory  a  nature  as  the  deserved.  she  had  never  heard  of  his  having  had  any  except  a  father  and  both  of  whom  had  been  dead  years.  it  was  that  some  of  his  companions  the  shire  might  be  able  to  give  more  information;  and  she  was  not  very  sanguine  in  expecting  the  application  was  something  to  look  forward  every  day  at  longbourn  was  now  a  day  of  anxiety;  but  the  anxious  part  of  each  was  when  the  post  was  expected.  the  of  letters  was  the  grand  object  of  every  s  through  whatever  of  good  or  bad  was  to  be  told  would  and  every  succeeding  day  was  expected  to  bring  news  of  but  before  they  heard  again  from  mr.  a  letter  for  their  from  a  different  from  mr.  as  jane  had  received  directions  to  open  all  that  came  him  in  his  she  accordingly  read;  and  who  what  curiosities  his  letters  always  looked  over  read  it  likewise.  it  was  as  my  dear  i  feel  myself  called  by  our  and  my  in  to  condole  with  you  on  the  grievous  affliction  you  now  suffering  of  which  we  were  yesterday  informed  by  letter  from  hertfordshire.  be  my  dear  that  collins  and  myself  sincerely  sympathise  with  you  and  all  respectable  in  your  present  which  must  be  the  bitterest  because  proceeding  from  a  cause  which  no  can  remove.  no  arguments  shall  be  wanting  on  my  part  that  alleviate  so  severe  a  or  that  may  comfort  under  circumstance  that  must  be  of  all  others  the  most  afflicting  to  s  mind.  the  death  of  your  daughter  would  have  been  blessing  in  comparison  of  this.  and  it  is  the  more  to  because  there  is  reason  to  suppose  as  my  dear  informs  that  this  licentiousness  of  behaviour  in  daughter  has  proceeded  from  a  faulty  degree  of  at  the  same  for  the  consolation  of  yourself  mrs.  i  am  inclined  to  think  that  her  own  disposition  be  naturally  or  she  could  not  be  guilty  of  such  an  at  so  early  an  age.  howsoever  that  may  you  are  grievously  be  pitied;  in  which  opinion  i  am  not  only  joined  by  mrs.  but  likewise  by  lady  catherine  and  her  to  whom  i  related  the  affair.  they  agree  with  me  in  apprehending  that  false  step  in  one  daughter  will  be  injurious  to  the  fortunes  all  the  others;  for  as  lady  catherine  condescendingly  will  connect  themselves  with  such  a  and  this  consideration  leads  me  moreover  to  augmented  on  a  certain  event  of  last  november;  had  it  been  i  must  have  been  involved  in  all  sorrow  and  disgrace.  let  me  then  advise  dear  to  yourself  as  much  as  to  throw  off  your  unworthy  from  your  affection  for  and  leave  her  to  reap  the  fruits  her  own  heinous  i  dear  mr.  gardiner  did  not  write  again  till  he  had  received  an  from  colonel  forster;  and  then  he  had  nothing  of  a  nature  to  send.  it  was  not  known  that  wickham  had  a  relationship  with  whom  he  kept  up  any  and  it  certain  that  he  had  no  near  one  living.  his  former  had  been  numerous;  but  since  he  had  been  in  the  it  not  appear  that  he  was  on  terms  of  particular  friendship  with  of  them.  there  was  no  who  could  be  pointed  out  likely  to  give  any  news  of  him.  and  in  the  wretched  state  of  own  there  was  a  very  powerful  motive  for  addition  to  his  fear  of  discovery  by  s  for  had  just  transpired  that  he  had  left  gaming  debts  behind  him  to  very  considerable  amount.  colonel  forster  believed  that  more  a  thousand  pounds  would  be  necessary  to  clear  his  expenses  brighton.  he  owed  a  good  deal  in  but  his  debts  of  were  still  more  formidable.  mr.  gardiner  did  not  attempt  conceal  these  particulars  from  the  longbourn  family.  jane  them  with  horror.  a  she  cried.  this  is  unexpected.  i  had  not  an  idea  of  mr.  gardiner  added  in  his  that  they  might  expect  to  their  father  at  home  on  the  following  which  was  rendered  spiritless  by  the  success  of  all  their  he  had  yielded  to  his  s  entreaty  that  he  return  to  his  and  leave  it  to  him  to  do  whatever  might  suggest  to  be  advisable  for  continuing  their  pursuit.  mrs.  bennet  was  told  of  she  did  not  express  so  satisfaction  as  her  children  considering  what  anxiety  for  his  life  had  been  is  he  coming  and  without  poor  she  sure  he  will  not  leave  london  before  he  has  found  them.  who  to  fight  and  make  him  marry  if  he  comes  as  mrs.  gardiner  began  to  wish  to  be  at  it  was  settled  she  and  the  children  should  go  to  at  the  same  time  mr.  bennet  came  from  it.  the  took  them  first  stage  of  their  and  brought  its  master  back  mrs.  gardiner  went  away  in  all  the  perplexity  about  elizabeth  her  derbyshire  friend  that  had  attended  her  from  that  part  of  world.  his  name  had  never  been  voluntarily  mentioned  before  by  her  niece;  and  the  kind  of  expectation  which  gardiner  had  of  their  being  followed  by  a  letter  had  ended  in  nothing.  elizabeth  had  received  none  since  return  that  could  come  from  the  present  unhappy  state  of  the  family  rendered  any  other  for  the  lowness  of  her  spirits  unnecessary;  could  be  fairly  conjectured  from  though  was  by  this  time  tolerably  well  acquainted  with  her  own  was  perfectly  aware  had  she  known  nothing  of  could  have  borne  the  dread  of  s  infamy  somewhat  better.  would  have  spared  she  one  sleepless  night  out  when  mr.  bennet  he  had  all  the  appearance  of  his  philosophic  composure.  he  said  as  little  as  he  had  ever  been  the  habit  of  saying;  made  no  mention  of  the  business  that  taken  him  and  it  was  some  time  before  his  daughters  courage  to  speak  of  it  was  not  till  the  when  he  had  joined  them  at  that  elizabeth  ventured  to  introduce  the  subject;  and  her  briefly  expressing  her  sorrow  for  what  he  must  have  he  say  nothing  of  that.  who  should  suffer  but  it  has  been  my  own  and  i  ought  to  feel  you  must  not  be  too  severe  upon  replied  you  may  well  warn  me  against  such  an  evil.  human  nature  is  prone  to  fall  into  it!  let  me  once  in  my  life  feel  much  i  have  been  to  blame.  i  am  not  afraid  of  being  by  the  impression.  it  will  pass  away  soon  do  you  suppose  them  to  be  in  yes;  where  else  can  they  be  so  well  and  lydia  used  to  want  to  go  to  added  she  is  happy  said  her  father  drily;  and  her  there  will  probably  be  of  some  then  after  a  short  silence  he  i  bear  you  no  will  for  being  justified  in  your  to  me  last  considering  the  shows  greatness  of  they  were  interrupted  by  miss  who  came  to  fetch  s  this  is  a  he  which  does  one  good;  it  gives  an  elegance  to  misfortune!  another  day  i  will  do  the  same;  i  sit  in  my  in  my  nightcap  and  powdering  and  give  much  trouble  as  i  can;  i  may  defer  it  till  runs  i  am  not  going  to  run  said  kitty  fretfully.  if  should  ever  go  to  i  would  behave  better  than  go  to  brighton.  i  would  not  trust  you  so  near  it  eastbourne  for  fifty  pounds!  i  have  at  last  learnt  be  and  you  will  feel  the  effects  of  it.  no  officer  ever  to  enter  into  my  house  nor  even  to  pass  through  village.  balls  will  be  absolutely  unless  you  stand  with  one  of  your  sisters.  and  you  are  never  to  stir  out  of  till  you  can  prove  that  you  have  spent  ten  minutes  of  every  in  a  rational  who  took  all  these  threats  in  a  serious  began  said  do  not  make  yourself  unhappy.  if  you  a  good  girl  for  the  next  ten  i  will  take  you  to  a  at  the  end  of  chapter  two  days  after  mr.  s  as  jane  and  elizabeth  walking  together  in  the  shrubbery  behind  the  they  saw  housekeeper  coming  towards  concluding  that  she  came  call  them  to  their  went  forward  to  meet  her;  of  the  expected  when  they  approached  she  said  miss  i  beg  your  for  interrupting  i  was  in  hopes  you  might  have  got  some  good  news  from  so  took  the  liberty  of  coming  to  what  do  you  hill?  we  have  heard  nothing  from  dear  cried  mrs.  in  great  t  know  there  is  an  express  come  for  master  from  mr.  gardiner?  has  been  here  this  and  master  has  had  a  away  ran  the  too  eager  to  get  in  to  have  time  for  they  ran  through  the  vestibule  into  the  room;  thence  to  the  library;  their  father  was  in  neither;  and  they  on  the  point  of  seeking  him  up  stairs  with  their  they  were  met  by  the  who  if  you  are  looking  for  my  he  is  walking  the  little  upon  this  they  instantly  passed  through  the  once  and  ran  across  the  lawn  after  their  who  deliberately  pursuing  his  way  towards  a  small  wood  on  one  side  the  who  was  not  so  light  nor  so  much  in  the  habit  of  running  soon  lagged  while  her  panting  came  up  with  and  eagerly  cried  what  what  news?  have  you  heard  from  my  yes  i  have  had  a  letter  from  him  by  and  what  news  does  it  good  or  what  is  there  of  good  to  be  said  taking  letter  from  his  pocket.  but  perhaps  you  would  like  to  read  elizabeth  impatiently  caught  it  from  his  hand.  jane  now  came  read  it  said  their  for  i  hardly  know  what  it  is  gracechurch  my  dear  at  last  i  am  able  to  send  you  some  tidings  of  my  and  upon  the  i  hope  it  will  give  you  satisfaction.  after  you  left  me  on  i  was  fortunate  enough  to  find  in  what  part  of  london  they  were.  the  particulars  i  reserve  we  meet;  it  is  enough  to  know  they  are  discovered.  i  have  them  then  it  is  as  i  always  cried  jane;  they  elizabeth  read  i  have  seen  them  both.  they  are  not  nor  can  i  there  was  any  intention  of  being  so;  but  if  you  are  willing  perform  the  engagements  which  i  have  ventured  to  make  on  i  hope  it  will  not  be  long  before  they  are.  all  that  required  of  you  to  assure  to  your  by  her  equal  share  of  the  five  thousand  pounds  secured  among  children  after  the  decease  of  yourself  and  my  sister;  to  enter  into  an  engagement  of  allowing  your  one  hundred  pounds  per  annum.  these  are  considering  i  had  no  hesitation  in  as  far  as  i  thought  myself  for  you.  i  send  this  by  that  no  time  may  be  lost  in  bringing  your  answer.  you  will  easily  from  these  that  mr.  s  circumstances  are  not  so  hopeless  as  they  generally  believed  to  be.  the  world  has  been  deceived  in  respect;  and  i  am  happy  to  say  there  will  be  some  little  even  when  all  his  debts  are  to  settle  on  my  addition  to  her  own  fortune.  as  i  conclude  will  be  the  you  send  me  full  powers  to  act  in  your  name  throughout  the  of  this  i  will  immediately  give  directions  haggerston  for  preparing  a  proper  settlement.  there  will  not  the  smallest  occasion  for  your  coming  to  town  again;  stay  quiet  at  and  depend  on  my  diligence  and  send  back  your  answer  as  fast  as  you  and  be  careful  to  explicitly.  we  have  judged  it  best  that  my  niece  should  married  from  this  of  which  i  hope  you  will  approve.  comes  to  us  day.  i  shall  write  again  as  soon  as  anything  is  determined  on.  edw.  is  it  cried  when  she  had  finished.  can  be  possible  that  he  will  marry  wickham  is  not  so  as  we  thought  her  sister.  my  dear  i  congratulate  and  have  you  answered  the  cried  no;  but  it  must  be  done  most  earnestly  did  she  then  entreat  him  to  lose  no  more  before  he  oh!  my  dear  she  come  back  and  immediately.  consider  how  important  every  moment  is  in  such  let  me  write  for  said  if  you  dislike  the  i  dislike  it  very  he  replied;  but  it  must  be  and  so  he  turned  back  with  and  walked  towards  and  may  i  said  elizabeth;  but  the  i  be  complied  complied  with!  i  am  only  ashamed  of  his  asking  so  and  they  marry!  yet  he  is  a  they  must  marry.  there  is  nothing  else  to  be  done.  there  are  two  things  that  i  want  very  much  to  know;  one  much  money  your  uncle  has  laid  down  to  bring  it  about;  and  how  am  i  ever  to  pay  money!  my  cried  what  do  you  i  that  no  man  in  his  senses  would  marry  lydia  on  so  a  temptation  as  one  hundred  a  year  during  my  and  after  i  am  that  is  very  said  elizabeth;  though  it  had  not  to  me  before.  his  debts  to  be  and  something  still  remain!  oh!  it  must  be  my  s  doings!  good  am  afraid  he  has  distressed  himself.  a  small  sum  could  not  do  said  her  father;  s  a  fool  if  he  takes  her  with  farthing  less  than  ten  thousand  pounds.  i  should  be  sorry  think  so  ill  of  in  the  very  beginning  of  our  ten  thousand  pounds!  heaven  forbid!  how  is  half  such  a  sum  to  mr.  bennet  made  no  and  each  of  deep  in  continued  silent  till  they  reached  the  house.  their  father  went  on  to  the  library  to  and  the  girls  walked  into  and  they  are  really  to  be  cried  as  soon  they  were  by  themselves.  how  strange  this  is!  and  for  are  to  be  thankful.  that  they  should  small  as  is  chance  of  and  wretched  as  is  his  we  forced  to  rejoice.  i  comfort  myself  with  replied  that  certainly  would  not  marry  lydia  if  he  had  not  a  real  regard  her.  though  our  kind  uncle  has  done  something  towards  i  cannot  believe  that  ten  thousand  or  anything  has  been  advanced.  he  has  children  of  his  and  may  more.  how  could  he  spare  half  ten  thousand  if  he  were  ever  able  to  learn  what  s  debts  have  said  and  how  much  is  settled  on  his  side  on  we  shall  exactly  know  what  mr.  gardiner  has  done  because  wickham  has  not  sixpence  of  his  own.  the  of  my  uncle  and  aunt  can  never  be  requited.  their  taking  and  affording  her  their  personal  protection  is  such  a  sacrifice  to  her  advantage  as  years  gratitude  cannot  enough  acknowledge.  by  this  time  she  is  with  them!  if  such  goodness  does  not  make  her  miserable  will  never  deserve  to  be  happy!  what  a  meeting  for  when  first  sees  my  we  must  endeavour  to  forget  all  that  has  passed  on  either  said  jane:  i  hope  and  trust  they  will  yet  be  happy.  consenting  to  marry  her  is  a  i  will  that  he  come  to  a  right  way  of  thinking.  their  mutual  affection  steady  them;  and  i  flatter  myself  they  will  settle  so  and  live  in  so  rational  a  as  may  in  time  make  their  imprudence  their  conduct  has  been  replied  as  nor  nor  anybody  can  ever  forget.  it  is  useless  to  talk  it  now  occurred  to  the  girls  that  their  mother  was  in  likelihood  perfectly  ignorant  of  what  had  happened.  they  went  the  and  asked  their  father  whether  he  not  wish  them  to  make  it  known  to  her.  he  was  writing  without  raising  his  coolly  just  as  you  may  we  take  my  s  letter  to  read  to  take  whatever  you  and  get  elizabeth  took  the  letter  from  his  and  they  up  stairs  together.  mary  and  kitty  were  both  with  mrs.  one  communication  do  for  all.  after  a  preparation  for  good  the  letter  was  read  aloud.  mrs.  could  hardly  contain  herself.  as  soon  as  jane  had  read  s  hope  of  s  being  soon  her  joy  and  every  following  sentence  added  to  its  exuberance.  was  now  in  an  irritation  as  violent  from  as  she  had  been  fidgety  from  alarm  and  vexation.  to  know  that  her  would  be  married  was  enough.  she  was  disturbed  by  no  fear  for  nor  humbled  by  any  remembrance  of  her  my  dear  she  cried.  this  is  delightful  indeed!  will  be  married!  i  shall  see  her  again!  she  will  be  married  sixteen!  my  kind  brother!  i  knew  how  it  would  be.  i  knew  would  manage  everything!  how  i  long  to  see  her!  and  to  see  wickham  too!  but  the  the  wedding  clothes!  i  will  to  my  sister  gardiner  about  them  directly.  my  down  to  your  and  ask  him  how  much  he  will  give  her.  i  will  go  myself.  ring  the  for  hill.  i  put  on  my  things  in  a  moment.  my  dear  lydia!  how  merry  shall  be  together  when  we  her  eldest  daughter  endeavoured  to  give  some  relief  to  violence  of  these  by  leading  her  thoughts  to  obligations  which  mr.  s  behaviour  laid  them  all  for  we  must  attribute  this  happy  she  in  great  measure  to  his  kindness.  we  are  persuaded  that  he  pledged  himself  to  assist  mr.  wickham  with  cried  her  it  is  all  very  right;  who  should  do  but  her  own  uncle?  if  he  had  not  had  a  family  of  his  i  my  children  must  have  had  all  his  you  know;  and  it  is  first  time  we  have  ever  had  anything  from  except  a  presents.  well!  i  am  so  happy!  in  a  short  time  i  shall  have  daughter  married.  mrs.  wickham!  how  well  it  sounds!  and  she  only  sixteen  last  june.  my  dear  i  am  in  such  a  that  i  am  sure  i  t  write;  so  i  will  and  you  for  me.  we  will  settle  with  your  father  about  the  afterwards;  but  the  things  should  be  ordered  she  was  then  proceeding  to  all  the  particulars  of  and  and  would  shortly  have  dictated  some  very  had  not  though  with  some  persuaded  to  wait  till  her  father  was  at  leisure  to  be  consulted.  one  she  would  be  of  small  importance;  and  her  was  too  happy  to  be  quite  so  obstinate  as  usual.  other  came  into  her  i  will  go  to  said  as  soon  as  i  am  tell  the  good  news  to  my  sister  philips.  and  as  i  i  can  call  on  lady  lucas  and  mrs.  long.  run  down  order  the  carriage.  an  airing  would  do  me  a  great  deal  of  am  sure.  can  i  do  anything  for  you  in  meryton?  oh!  comes  hill!  my  dear  have  you  heard  the  good  news?  lydia  is  going  to  be  married;  and  you  shall  all  have  a  bowl  punch  to  make  merry  at  her  mrs.  hill  began  instantly  to  express  her  joy.  elizabeth  her  congratulations  amongst  the  and  sick  of  took  refuge  in  her  own  that  she  might  think  poor  s  situation  at  be  bad  enough;  but  that  was  no  she  had  need  to  be  thankful.  she  felt  it  so;  in  looking  neither  rational  happiness  worldly  prosperity  could  be  justly  expected  for  her  looking  back  to  what  they  had  only  two  hours  felt  all  the  advantages  of  what  they  had  chapter  mr.  bennet  had  very  often  wished  before  this  period  of  his  instead  of  spending  his  whole  he  had  laid  by  annual  sum  for  the  better  provision  of  his  and  of  if  she  survived  him.  he  now  wished  it  more  than  ever.  he  done  his  duty  in  that  lydia  need  not  have  indebted  to  her  uncle  for  whatever  of  honour  or  credit  could  be  purchased  for  her.  the  satisfaction  of  prevailing  on  one  the  most  worthless  young  men  in  great  britain  to  be  her  might  then  have  rested  in  its  proper  he  was  seriously  concerned  that  a  cause  of  so  little  advantage  anyone  should  be  forwarded  at  the  sole  expense  of  and  he  was  if  to  find  the  extent  of  his  and  to  discharge  the  obligation  soon  as  he  when  first  mr.  bennet  had  economy  was  held  to  perfectly  of  they  were  to  have  a  son.  son  was  to  join  in  cutting  off  the  as  soon  as  he  be  of  and  the  widow  and  younger  children  would  by  that  be  provided  for.  five  daughters  successively  entered  the  but  yet  the  son  was  to  come;  and  mrs.  for  many  after  s  had  been  certain  that  he  would.  this  had  at  last  been  despaired  but  it  was  then  too  late  to  saving.  mrs.  bennet  had  no  turn  for  and  her  love  of  independence  had  alone  prevented  their  exceeding  five  thousand  pounds  was  settled  by  marriage  articles  on  bennet  and  the  children.  but  in  what  proportions  it  should  divided  amongst  the  latter  depended  on  the  will  of  the  this  was  one  with  regard  to  at  which  was  to  be  and  mr.  bennet  could  have  no  hesitation  acceding  to  the  proposal  before  him.  in  terms  of  acknowledgment  for  the  kindness  of  his  though  most  he  then  delivered  on  paper  his  approbation  of  all  that  was  and  his  willingness  to  the  engagements  that  had  been  made  for  him.  he  had  never  supposed  could  wickham  be  prevailed  on  to  marry  it  would  be  done  with  so  little  inconvenience  himself  as  by  the  present  arrangement.  he  would  scarcely  be  pounds  a  year  the  loser  by  the  hundred  that  was  to  be  paid  what  with  her  board  and  pocket  and  the  presents  in  money  which  passed  to  her  through  her  s  s  expenses  had  been  very  little  within  that  that  it  would  be  done  with  such  trifling  exertion  on  his  was  another  very  welcome  surprise;  for  his  wish  at  was  to  have  as  little  trouble  in  the  business  as  possible.  the  first  transports  of  rage  which  had  produced  his  activity  seeking  her  were  he  naturally  returned  to  all  his  indolence.  his  letter  was  soon  dispatched;  though  in  undertaking  he  was  quick  in  its  execution.  he  to  know  further  particulars  of  what  he  was  indebted  to  but  was  too  angry  with  lydia  to  send  any  message  to  the  good  news  spread  quickly  through  the  and  proportionate  speed  through  the  neighbourhood.  it  was  borne  the  latter  with  decent  philosophy.  to  be  it  would  have  more  for  the  advantage  of  conversation  had  miss  lydia  bennet  upon  the  town;  as  the  happiest  been  from  the  in  some  distant  farmhouse.  but  there  was  much  be  talked  of  in  marrying  her;  and  the  natured  wishes  for  doing  which  had  proceeded  before  from  all  the  spiteful  ladies  in  meryton  lost  but  a  little  of  their  spirit  in  change  of  because  with  such  an  husband  her  was  considered  it  was  a  fortnight  since  mrs.  bennet  had  been  downstairs;  but  this  happy  day  she  again  took  her  seat  at  the  head  of  her  and  in  spirits  oppressively  high.  no  sentiment  of  shame  gave  damp  to  her  triumph.  the  marriage  of  a  which  had  the  first  object  of  her  wishes  since  jane  was  was  now  the  point  of  and  her  thoughts  and  her  words  wholly  on  those  attendants  of  elegant  fine  and  servants.  she  was  busily  searching  through  neighbourhood  for  a  proper  situation  for  her  without  knowing  or  considering  what  their  income  might  rejected  many  as  deficient  in  size  and  haye  park  might  said  if  the  gouldings  could  or  the  great  house  at  if  the  room  were  but  ashworth  is  too  far  off!  i  could  not  bear  to  have  her  miles  from  me;  and  as  for  pulvis  the  attics  are  her  husband  allowed  her  to  talk  on  without  interruption  while  servants  remained.  but  when  they  had  he  said  to  mrs.  before  you  take  any  or  all  of  these  houses  for  son  and  let  us  come  to  a  right  understanding.  house  in  this  neighbourhood  they  shall  never  admittance.  i  will  not  encourage  the  impudence  of  receiving  them  at  a  long  dispute  followed  this  declaration;  but  mr.  bennet  firm.  it  soon  led  to  another;  and  mrs.  bennet  amazement  and  that  her  husband  would  not  advance  a  to  buy  clothes  for  his  daughter.  he  protested  that  she  receive  from  him  no  mark  of  affection  whatever  on  the  mrs.  bennet  could  hardly  comprehend  it.  that  his  anger  could  carried  to  such  a  point  of  inconceivable  resentment  as  to  his  daughter  a  privilege  without  which  her  marriage  scarcely  seem  exceeded  all  she  could  believe  possible.  was  more  alive  to  the  disgrace  which  her  want  of  new  clothes  reflect  on  her  s  than  to  any  sense  of  shame  her  eloping  and  living  with  wickham  a  fortnight  before  they  elizabeth  was  now  most  heartily  sorry  that  she  from  distress  of  the  been  led  to  make  mr.  darcy  with  their  fears  for  her  sister;  for  since  her  marriage  would  shortly  give  the  proper  termination  to  the  they  hope  to  conceal  its  unfavourable  beginning  from  all  those  were  not  immediately  on  the  she  had  no  fear  of  its  spreading  farther  through  his  means.  were  few  people  on  whose  secrecy  she  would  have  more  depended;  at  the  same  there  was  no  one  whose  of  a  s  frailty  would  have  mortified  her  so  from  any  fear  of  disadvantage  from  it  individually  at  any  there  seemed  a  gulf  impassable  them.  had  s  marriage  been  concluded  on  the  most  it  was  not  to  be  supposed  that  mr.  darcy  would  himself  with  a  family  to  every  other  would  be  added  an  alliance  and  relationship  of  the  nearest  kind  with  man  whom  he  so  justly  from  such  a  connection  she  could  not  wonder  that  he  would  the  wish  of  procuring  her  which  she  had  assured  of  his  feeling  in  could  not  in  rational  survive  such  a  blow  as  this.  she  was  she  was  she  though  she  hardly  knew  of  what.  she  became  of  his  when  she  could  no  longer  hope  to  be  benefited  it.  she  wanted  to  hear  of  when  there  seemed  the  least  of  gaining  intelligence.  she  was  convinced  that  she  could  been  happy  with  when  it  was  no  longer  likely  they  what  a  triumph  for  as  she  often  could  he  know  the  proposals  which  she  had  proudly  spurned  only  four  months  would  now  have  been  most  gladly  and  gratefully  received!  he  as  she  doubted  as  the  most  generous  of  his  but  while  he  was  there  must  be  a  she  began  now  to  comprehend  that  he  was  exactly  the  man  disposition  and  would  most  suit  her.  his  and  though  unlike  her  would  have  answered  all  wishes.  it  was  an  union  that  must  have  been  to  the  advantage  both;  by  her  ease  and  his  mind  might  have  his  manners  improved;  and  from  his  and  knowledge  of  the  she  must  have  benefit  of  greater  but  no  such  happy  marriage  could  now  teach  the  admiring  what  connubial  felicity  really  was.  an  union  of  a  and  precluding  the  possibility  of  the  was  to  be  formed  in  their  how  wickham  and  lydia  were  to  be  supported  in  she  could  not  imagine.  but  how  little  of  happiness  could  belong  to  a  couple  who  were  only  brought  because  their  passions  were  stronger  than  their  she  easily  mr.  gardiner  soon  wrote  again  to  his  brother.  to  mr.  acknowledgments  he  briefly  with  assurance  of  eagerness  to  promote  the  welfare  of  any  of  his  family;  concluded  with  entreaties  that  the  subject  might  never  mentioned  to  him  again.  the  principal  purport  of  his  letter  to  inform  them  that  mr.  wickham  had  resolved  on  quitting  it  was  greatly  my  wish  that  he  should  do  he  as  as  his  marriage  was  fixed  on.  and  i  think  you  will  agree  with  in  considering  the  removal  from  that  corps  as  highly  both  on  his  account  and  my  s.  it  is  mr.  s  to  go  into  the  regulars;  and  among  his  former  there  still  some  who  are  able  and  willing  to  assist  him  in  the  army.  has  the  promise  of  an  ensigncy  in  general  s  quartered  in  the  north.  it  is  an  advantage  to  have  it  so  far  this  part  of  the  kingdom.  he  promises  fairly;  and  i  hope  different  where  they  may  each  have  a  character  they  will  both  be  more  prudent.  i  have  written  colonel  to  inform  him  of  our  present  to  request  that  he  will  satisfy  the  various  creditors  of  wickham  in  and  near  with  assurances  of  speedy  for  which  i  have  pledged  myself.  and  will  you  give  yourself  trouble  of  carrying  similar  assurances  to  his  creditors  of  whom  i  shall  subjoin  a  list  according  to  information?  he  has  given  in  all  his  debts;  i  hope  at  least  has  not  deceived  us.  haggerston  has  our  and  all  be  completed  in  a  week.  they  will  then  join  his  they  are  first  invited  to  longbourn;  and  i  understand  from  that  my  niece  is  very  desirous  of  seeing  you  all  she  leaves  the  south.  she  is  and  begs  to  be  remembered  to  you  and  her  e.  mr.  bennet  and  his  daughters  saw  all  the  advantages  of  removal  from  the  shire  as  clearly  as  mr.  gardiner  could  do.  mrs.  bennet  was  not  so  well  pleased  with  it.  s  settled  in  the  just  when  she  had  expected  most  and  pride  in  her  for  she  had  by  no  means  given  up  plan  of  their  residing  in  was  a  disappointment;  it  was  such  a  pity  that  should  be  taken  from  a  regiment  where  she  was  acquainted  and  had  so  many  she  is  so  fond  of  mrs.  said  it  will  be  shocking  to  send  her  away!  and  there  are  several  of  the  that  she  likes  very  much.  the  officers  may  not  be  pleasant  in  general  s  his  s  for  such  it  might  be  of  admitted  into  her  family  again  before  she  set  off  for  the  received  at  first  an  absolute  negative.  but  jane  and  who  agreed  in  for  the  sake  of  their  s  and  that  she  should  be  noticed  on  her  marriage  her  urged  him  so  earnestly  yet  so  rationally  and  to  receive  her  and  her  husband  at  as  soon  they  were  that  he  was  prevailed  on  to  think  as  and  act  as  they  wished.  and  their  mother  had  satisfaction  of  knowing  that  she  would  be  able  to  show  married  daughter  in  the  neighbourhood  before  she  was  banished  the  north.  when  mr.  bennet  wrote  again  to  his  he  sent  his  permission  for  them  to  come;  and  it  was  as  soon  as  the  ceremony  was  they  should  proceed  longbourn.  elizabeth  was  that  wickham  consent  to  such  a  and  had  she  consulted  only  her  any  meeting  with  him  would  have  been  the  last  of  her  chapter  their  s  wedding  day  arrived;  and  jane  and  elizabeth  for  her  probably  more  than  she  felt  for  herself.  the  carriage  sent  to  meet  them  at  and  they  were  to  return  in  it  time.  their  arrival  was  dreaded  by  the  elder  miss  and  jane  more  who  gave  lydia  the  feelings  which  have  attended  had  been  the  and  wretched  in  the  thought  of  what  her  sister  must  they  came.  the  family  were  assembled  in  the  breakfast  room  receive  them.  smiles  decked  the  face  of  mrs.  bennet  as  carriage  drove  up  to  the  door;  her  husband  looked  grave;  her  s  voice  was  heard  in  the  vestibule;  the  door  was  and  she  ran  into  the  room.  her  mother  stepped  embraced  and  welcomed  her  with  rapture;  gave  her  an  affectionate  to  who  followed  his  lady;  wished  them  both  joy  with  an  alacrity  which  shewed  no  doubt  their  their  reception  from  mr.  to  whom  they  then  not  quite  so  cordial.  his  countenance  rather  gained  in  and  he  scarcely  opened  his  lips.  the  easy  assurance  of  the  was  enough  to  provoke  him.  elizabeth  and  even  miss  bennet  was  shocked.  lydia  was  still;  and  fearless.  she  from  sister  to  demanding  their  congratulations;  and  at  length  they  all  sat  looked  eagerly  round  the  notice  of  some  little  alteration  in  and  with  that  it  was  a  great  while  since  she  had  been  wickham  was  not  at  all  more  distressed  than  but  manners  were  always  so  that  had  his  character  and  marriage  been  exactly  what  they  his  smiles  and  his  while  he  claimed  their  would  delighted  them  all.  elizabeth  had  not  before  believed  him  equal  to  such  assurance;  but  she  sat  resolving  herself  to  draw  no  limits  in  future  to  the  impudence  of  impudent  man.  and  jane  blushed;  but  the  cheeks  the  two  who  caused  their  confusion  suffered  no  variation  there  was  no  want  of  discourse.  the  bride  and  her  mother  neither  of  them  talk  fast  enough;  and  who  happened  sit  near  began  enquiring  after  his  acquaintance  that  with  a  good  humoured  ease  which  she  felt  unable  to  equal  in  her  replies.  they  seemed  each  of  them  to  the  happiest  memories  in  the  world.  nothing  of  the  past  recollected  with  pain;  and  lydia  led  voluntarily  to  which  her  sisters  would  not  have  alluded  to  for  the  only  think  of  its  being  three  she  since  i  away;  it  seems  but  a  fortnight  i  declare;  and  yet  there  have  things  enough  happened  in  the  time.  good  gracious!  when  i  i  am  sure  i  had  no  more  idea  of  being  married  till  i  back  again!  though  i  thought  it  would  be  very  good  fun  if  i  her  father  lifted  up  his  eyes.  jane  was  distressed.  looked  expressively  at  lydia;  but  who  never  heard  nor  anything  of  which  she  chose  to  be  gaily  oh!  do  the  people  hereabouts  know  i  am  married  day?  was  afraid  they  might  not;  and  we  overtook  william  goulding  his  so  i  was  determined  he  should  know  and  so  i  down  the  glass  next  to  and  took  off  my  and  my  hand  just  rest  upon  the  window  so  that  he  might  see  and  then  i  bowed  and  smiled  like  elizabeth  could  bear  it  no  longer.  she  got  and  ran  out  of  room;  and  returned  no  till  she  heard  them  passing  the  hall  to  the  dining  parlour.  she  then  joined  them  soon  to  see  with  anxious  walk  up  to  her  s  and  hear  her  say  to  her  eldest  ah!  i  your  place  and  you  must  go  because  i  am  a  it  was  not  to  be  supposed  that  time  would  give  lydia  embarrassment  from  which  she  had  been  so  wholly  free  at  her  ease  and  good  spirits  increased.  she  longed  to  see  the  and  all  their  other  and  hear  herself  called  mrs.  by  each  of  them;  and  in  mean  she  went  after  dinner  to  show  her  and  boast  being  to  mrs.  hill  and  the  two  said  when  they  were  all  returned  to  breakfast  and  what  do  you  think  of  my  husband?  is  not  he  charming  man?  i  am  sure  my  sisters  must  all  envy  me.  i  only  they  may  have  half  my  good  luck.  they  must  all  go  to  that  is  the  place  to  get  husbands.  what  a  pity  it  did  not  all  very  true;  and  if  i  had  my  we  should.  but  my  dear  t  at  all  like  your  going  such  a  way  off.  must  it  be  lord!  there  is  nothing  in  that.  i  shall  like  it  of  things.  you  and  and  my  must  come  down  and  see  we  shall  be  at  newcastle  all  the  and  i  dare  say  will  be  some  and  i  will  take  care  to  get  good  partners  them  i  should  like  it  beyond  said  her  and  then  when  you  go  you  may  leave  one  or  two  of  sisters  behind  you;  and  i  dare  say  i  shall  get  husbands  for  before  the  winter  is  i  thank  you  for  my  share  of  the  said  elizabeth;  but  do  not  particularly  like  your  way  of  getting  their  visitors  were  not  to  remain  above  ten  days  with  them.  wickham  had  received  his  commission  before  he  left  and  was  to  join  his  regiment  at  the  end  of  a  no  one  but  mrs.  bennet  regretted  that  their  stay  would  be  short;  and  she  made  the  most  of  the  time  by  visiting  about  her  and  having  very  frequent  parties  at  home.  parties  were  acceptable  to  all;  to  avoid  a  family  circle  was  more  desirable  to  such  as  did  than  such  as  did  s  affection  for  lydia  was  just  what  elizabeth  expected  to  find  it;  not  equal  to  s  for  him.  she  scarcely  needed  her  present  observation  to  be  from  reason  of  that  their  elopement  had  been  brought  on  by  strength  of  her  rather  than  by  his;  and  she  would  wondered  without  violently  caring  for  he  chose  to  with  her  at  had  she  not  felt  certain  that  his  flight  rendered  necessary  by  distress  of  circumstances;  and  if  that  the  he  was  not  the  young  man  to  resist  an  opportunity  having  a  lydia  was  exceedingly  fond  of  him.  he  was  her  dear  wickham  every  occasion;  no  one  was  to  be  put  in  competition  with  him.  did  every  thing  best  in  the  world;  and  she  was  sure  he  would  more  birds  on  the  first  of  than  any  body  else  in  one  soon  after  their  as  she  was  sitting  her  two  elder  she  said  to  i  never  gave  an  account  of  my  i  you  were  not  when  i  told  mamma  and  the  others  all  about  are  not  you  curious  to  hear  how  it  was  no  replied  elizabeth;  i  think  there  cannot  be  little  said  on  the  la!  you  are  so  strange!  but  i  must  tell  you  how  it  went  off.  were  you  at  st.  because  lodgings  were  in  that  parish.  and  it  was  settled  that  we  all  be  there  by  eleven  clock.  my  uncle  and  aunt  and  i  were  go  together;  and  the  others  were  to  meet  us  at  the  church.  monday  morning  and  i  was  in  such  a  fuss!  i  was  so  you  that  something  would  happen  to  put  it  and  then  should  have  gone  quite  distracted.  and  there  was  my  all  time  i  was  preaching  and  talking  away  just  as  if  was  reading  a  sermon.  i  did  not  hear  above  one  word  for  i  was  you  may  of  my  dear  wickham.  longed  to  know  whether  he  would  be  married  in  his  blue  and  so  we  breakfasted  at  ten  as  usual;  i  thought  it  never  be  over;  by  the  you  are  to  that  uncle  and  aunt  were  horrid  unpleasant  all  the  time  i  was  them.  if  ll  believe  i  did  not  once  put  my  foot  out  though  i  was  there  a  fortnight.  not  one  or  or  anything.  to  be  sure  london  was  rather  little  theatre  was  open.  and  so  just  as  the  carriage  to  the  my  uncle  was  called  away  upon  business  to  horrid  man  mr.  stone.  and  you  when  once  they  there  is  no  end  of  it.  i  was  so  frightened  i  not  know  what  to  for  my  uncle  was  to  give  me  away;  and  if  were  beyond  the  we  could  not  be  married  all  day.  he  came  back  again  in  ten  and  then  we  set  out.  i  recollected  afterwards  that  if  he  prevented  the  wedding  need  not  be  put  for  mr.  might  have  done  as  mr.  repeated  in  utter  he  was  to  come  there  with  you  know.  gracious  me!  i  quite  forgot!  i  ought  not  to  have  said  a  about  it.  i  promised  them  so  faithfully!  what  will  wickham  it  was  to  be  such  a  if  it  was  to  be  said  say  not  another  word  on  subject.  you  may  depend  upon  my  seeking  no  oh!  said  though  burning  with  we  will  ask  you  no  thank  said  for  if  you  i  should  certainly  you  and  then  wickham  would  be  on  such  encouragement  to  elizabeth  was  forced  to  put  it  of  her  by  running  but  to  live  in  ignorance  on  such  a  point  was  impossible;  or  least  it  was  impossible  not  to  try  for  information.  mr.  darcy  been  at  her  s  wedding.  it  was  exactly  a  and  among  where  he  had  apparently  least  to  and  temptation  to  go.  conjectures  as  to  the  meaning  of  rapid  hurried  into  her  brain;  but  she  was  satisfied  with  those  that  best  pleased  as  placing  his  conduct  in  noblest  seemed  most  improbable.  she  could  not  bear  suspense;  and  hastily  seizing  a  sheet  of  wrote  a  letter  to  her  to  request  an  explanation  of  what  lydia  if  it  were  compatible  with  the  secrecy  which  had  you  may  readily  she  what  my  curiosity  be  to  know  how  a  person  unconnected  with  any  of  (comparatively  speaking)  a  stranger  to  our  should  been  amongst  you  at  such  a  time.  pray  write  and  let  understand  unless  it  for  very  cogent  to  remain  the  secrecy  which  lydia  seems  to  think  necessary;  and  then  i  endeavour  to  be  satisfied  with  not  that  i  she  added  to  as  finished  the  letter;  and  my  dear  if  you  do  not  tell  me  an  honourable  i  shall  certainly  be  reduced  to  tricks  stratagems  to  find  it  s  delicate  sense  of  honour  would  not  allow  her  to  speak  elizabeth  privately  of  what  lydia  had  let  fall;  elizabeth  glad  of  till  it  appeared  whether  her  enquiries  would  any  she  had  rather  be  without  a  chapter  elizabeth  had  the  satisfaction  of  receiving  an  answer  to  letter  as  soon  as  she  possibly  could.  she  was  no  sooner  possession  of  it  hurrying  into  the  little  where  was  least  likely  to  be  she  sat  down  on  one  of  benches  and  prepared  to  be  happy;  for  the  length  of  the  convinced  her  that  it  did  not  contain  a  gracechurch  .  my  dear  i  have  just  received  your  and  shall  devote  this  morning  to  answering  as  i  foresee  that  a  will  not  comprise  what  i  have  to  tell  you.  i  must  confess  surprised  by  your  application;  i  did  not  expect  it  from  t  think  me  for  i  only  mean  to  let  you  that  i  had  not  imagined  such  enquiries  to  be  necessary  on  side.  if  you  do  not  choose  to  understand  forgive  impertinence.  your  uncle  is  as  much  surprised  as  i  and  but  the  belief  of  your  being  a  party  concerned  would  have  him  to  act  as  he  has  done.  but  if  you  are  really  innocent  i  must  be  more  on  the  very  day  of  my  coming  home  from  your  uncle  a  most  unexpected  visitor.  mr.  darcy  and  was  shut  up  him  several  hours.  it  was  all  over  before  i  arrived;  so  curiosity  was  not  so  dreadfully  racked  as  seems  to  been.  he  came  to  tell  mr.  gardiner  that  he  had  found  out  your  sister  and  mr.  wickham  and  that  he  had  seen  and  with  them  both;  wickham  lydia  once.  from  what  i  he  left  derbyshire  only  one  day  after  came  to  town  with  the  resolution  of  hunting  for  them.  the  professed  was  his  conviction  of  its  being  owing  to  himself  s  worthlessness  had  not  been  so  well  known  as  to  make  impossible  for  any  young  woman  of  character  to  love  or  confide  him.  he  generously  imputed  the  whole  to  his  mistaken  confessed  that  he  had  before  thought  it  beneath  him  to  lay  private  actions  open  to  the  world.  his  character  was  to  speak  itself.  he  called  his  duty  to  step  endeavour  to  remedy  an  evil  which  had  been  brought  on  by  if  he  had  i  am  sure  it  would  never  him.  he  had  been  some  days  in  before  he  was  able  discover  them;  but  he  had  something  to  direct  his  was  more  than  had;  and  the  consciousness  of  this  was  reason  for  his  resolving  to  follow  there  is  a  it  a  mrs.  who  was  some  time  governess  to  miss  and  was  dismissed  from  her  charge  some  cause  of  though  he  did  not  say  what.  then  took  a  large  house  in  and  has  maintained  herself  by  letting  lodgings.  this  mrs.  younge  intimately  acquainted  with  wickham;  and  he  went  to  her  intelligence  of  him  as  soon  as  he  got  to  town.  but  it  was  two  three  days  before  he  could  get  from  her  what  he  wanted.  she  not  betray  her  i  without  bribery  and  for  she  really  did  know  where  her  friend  was  to  be  found.  indeed  had  gone  to  her  on  their  first  arrival  in  and  she  been  able  to  receive  them  into  her  they  would  taken  up  their  abode  with  her.  at  our  friend  procured  the  for  direction.  they  were  in  he  saw  and  afterwards  insisted  on  seeing  lydia.  first  object  with  he  had  been  to  persuade  to  quit  her  present  disgraceful  and  return  to  friends  as  soon  as  they  could  be  prevailed  on  to  receive  offering  his  as  far  as  it  would  go.  but  he  lydia  absolutely  resolved  on  remaining  where  she  was.  she  for  none  of  her  friends;  she  wanted  no  help  of  his;  she  would  hear  of  leaving  wickham.  she  was  sure  they  should  be  married  time  or  and  it  did  not  much  signify  when.  since  such  her  it  only  he  to  secure  expedite  a  in  his  very  first  conversation  he  easily  learnt  had  never  been  design.  confessed  himself  obliged  to  leave  the  on  account  some  debts  of  which  were  very  pressing;  and  scrupled  to  lay  all  the  consequences  of  s  flight  on  her  folly  alone.  he  meant  to  resign  his  commission  immediately;  as  to  his  future  he  could  conjecture  very  little  it.  he  must  go  but  he  did  not  know  and  he  he  should  have  nothing  to  live  mr.  darcy  asked  him  why  he  had  not  married  your  sister  at  though  mr.  bennet  was  not  imagined  to  be  very  he  would  been  able  to  do  something  for  and  his  situation  must  been  benefited  by  marriage.  but  he  in  reply  to  that  wickham  still  cherished  the  hope  of  effectually  making  his  fortune  by  marriage  in  some  other  under  such  he  was  not  likely  to  be  against  the  temptation  of  immediate  they  met  several  for  there  was  much  to  be  wickham  of  course  wanted  more  than  he  could  get;  but  at  was  reduced  to  be  everything  being  settled  between  mr.  s  next  was  to  make  your  uncle  acquainted  with  and  he  first  called  gracechurch  street  the  evening  before  i  came  home.  but  gardiner  could  not  be  and  mr.  darcy  on  that  your  father  was  still  with  but  would  quit  the  next  morning.  he  did  not  judge  your  father  to  be  a  whom  he  could  so  properly  consult  as  your  and  readily  postponed  seeing  him  till  after  the  departure  of  former.  he  did  not  leave  his  and  till  the  next  day  it  only  known  that  a  gentleman  had  called  on  on  saturday  he  came  again.  your  father  was  your  uncle  as  i  said  they  had  a  great  deal  of  they  met  again  on  and  then  saw  him  too.  it  was  all  settled  before  monday:  as  soon  as  it  the  express  sent  off  to  longbourn.  but  our  visitor  was  very  obstinate.  that  obstinacy  is  the  real  defect  of  his  after  all.  he  has  been  accused  of  many  faults  at  different  but  is  the  true  one.  nothing  was  to  be  done  that  he  not  do  himself;  though  i  am  sure  (and  i  do  not  speak  it  to  therefore  say  nothing  about  your  uncle  would  readily  have  settled  the  they  battled  it  together  for  a  long  which  was  more  either  the  gentleman  or  lady  concerned  in  it  deserved.  but  last  your  uncle  was  forced  to  and  instead  of  being  to  be  of  use  to  his  was  forced  to  put  up  with  only  the  probable  credit  of  which  went  sorely  against  the  and  i  really  believe  your  letter  this  morning  gave  him  because  it  required  an  explanation  that  would  rob  of  his  borrowed  and  give  the  praise  where  it  was  this  must  go  no  farther  than  or  jane  you  know  pretty  i  what  has  been  done  for  young  people.  his  debts  are  to  be  i  considerably  more  than  a  thousand  another  thousand  addition  to  her  own  settled  upon  and  his  purchased.  the  reason  why  all  this  was  to  be  done  by  him  was  such  as  i  have  given  above.  it  was  owing  to  to  reserve  and  want  of  proper  that  character  had  been  so  and  consequently  that  he  been  received  and  noticed  as  he  was.  perhaps  there  was  some  in  ;  though  i  doubt  whether  or  can  be  answerable  for  the  event.  but  in  spite  of  this  fine  my  dear  you  may  rest  perfectly  that  your  uncle  would  never  have  if  we  had  not  given  credit  for  another  in  the  when  all  this  was  resolved  he  returned  again  to  his  who  were  still  staying  at  pemberley;  but  it  was  agreed  that  should  be  in  london  once  more  when  the  wedding  took  all  money  matters  were  then  to  receive  the  last  i  believe  i  have  now  told  you  every  thing.  it  is  a  which  you  tell  me  is  to  give  you  great  surprise;  i  hope  at  it  will  not  afford  you  any  displeasure.  lydia  came  to  us;  wickham  had  constant  admission  to  the  house.  was  what  he  had  when  i  knew  him  in  hertfordshire;  but  i  not  tell  you  how  little  i  was  satisfied  with  while  she  staid  with  if  i  had  not  by  s  last  that  her  conduct  on  coming  home  was  exactly  of  piece  with  and  therefore  what  i  now  tell  you  can  give  you  fresh  pain.  i  talked  to  her  repeatedly  in  the  most  representing  to  her  all  the  wickedness  of  what  she  and  all  the  unhappiness  she  had  brought  on  her  family.  she  heard  it  was  by  good  for  i  am  sure  she  did  listen.  i  was  sometimes  quite  but  then  i  recollected  dear  elizabeth  and  and  for  their  sakes  had  patience  mr.  darcy  was  punctual  in  his  and  as  lydia  informed  attended  the  wedding.  he  dined  with  us  the  next  and  was  leave  town  again  on  wednesday  or  thursday.  will  you  be  very  with  my  dear  if  i  take  this  opportunity  of  (what  i  was  never  bold  enough  to  say  before)  how  much  i  like  his  behaviour  to  us  in  every  been  as  pleasing  when  we  were  in  derbyshire.  his  understanding  and  opinions  please  me;  he  wants  nothing  but  a  little  more  if  he  marry  his  wife  may  teach  him.  thought  him  very  he  hardly  ever  mentioned  your  name.  slyness  seems  the  pray  forgive  me  if  i  have  been  very  or  at  least  not  punish  me  so  far  as  to  exclude  me  from  p.  i  shall  never  quite  happy  till  i  have  been  all  round  the  park.  a  low  with  a  nice  little  pair  of  would  be  the  very  but  i  must  write  no  more.  the  children  have  been  wanting  me  half  very  m.  the  contents  of  this  letter  threw  elizabeth  into  a  flutter  in  which  it  was  difficult  to  determine  whether  or  pain  bore  the  greatest  share.  the  vague  and  suspicions  which  uncertainty  had  produced  of  what  mr.  darcy  have  been  doing  to  forward  her  s  which  she  feared  to  encourage  as  an  exertion  of  goodness  too  great  to  and  at  the  same  time  dreaded  to  be  from  the  of  were  proved  beyond  their  greatest  extent  to  true!  he  had  followed  them  purposely  to  he  had  taken  himself  all  the  trouble  and  mortification  attendant  on  such  research;  in  which  supplication  had  been  necessary  to  a  whom  he  must  abominate  and  and  where  he  was  reduced  frequently  reason  and  finally  the  man  whom  he  always  most  wished  to  and  whose  very  it  was  punishment  to  him  to  pronounce.  he  had  done  all  this  for  girl  whom  he  could  neither  regard  nor  esteem.  her  heart  whisper  that  he  had  done  it  for  her.  but  it  was  a  hope  checked  by  other  and  she  soon  felt  that  even  vanity  was  when  required  to  depend  on  his  for  for  a  woman  who  had  already  refused  as  able  overcome  a  sentiment  so  natural  as  abhorrence  relationship  with  wickham.  law  of  wickham!  every  of  pride  must  revolt  from  the  connection.  he  to  be  done  much.  she  was  ashamed  to  think  how  much.  but  he  had  given  reason  for  his  which  asked  no  extraordinary  of  belief.  it  was  reasonable  that  he  should  feel  he  had  wrong;  he  had  and  he  had  the  means  of  exercising  and  though  she  would  not  place  herself  as  his  she  believe  that  remaining  for  her  might  assist  his  endeavours  in  a  cause  where  her  peace  mind  must  be  materially  concerned.  it  was  to  know  that  they  were  under  obligations  to  a  person  could  never  receive  a  return.  they  owed  the  restoration  of  her  every  to  him.  oh!  how  heartily  did  grieve  over  every  ungracious  sensation  she  had  ever  every  saucy  speech  she  had  ever  directed  towards  him.  for  she  was  humbled;  but  she  was  proud  of  him.  proud  that  in  a  of  compassion  and  he  had  been  able  to  get  the  better  himself.  she  read  over  her  s  commendation  of  him  again  again.  it  was  hardly  enough;  but  it  pleased  her.  she  was  sensible  of  some  though  mixed  with  on  how  steadfastly  both  she  and  her  uncle  had  been  persuaded  affection  and  confidence  subsisted  between  mr.  darcy  and  she  was  roused  from  her  and  her  by  some  approach;  and  before  she  could  strike  into  another  she  overtaken  by  i  am  afraid  i  interrupt  your  solitary  my  dear  said  as  he  joined  you  certainly  she  replied  with  a  smile;  but  it  does  follow  that  the  interruption  must  be  i  should  be  sorry  if  it  were.  were  always  friends;  and  now  we  are  true.  are  the  others  coming  i  do  not  know.  mrs.  bennet  and  lydia  are  going  in  the  to  meryton.  and  my  dear  i  from  our  uncle  that  you  have  actually  seen  she  replied  in  the  i  almost  envy  you  the  and  yet  i  believe  it  would  too  much  for  or  else  i  could  take  it  in  my  way  to  and  you  saw  the  old  i  suppose?  poor  was  always  very  fond  of  me.  but  of  course  she  did  not  mention  name  to  she  and  what  did  she  that  you  were  gone  into  the  and  she  was  afraid  turned  out  well.  at  such  a  distance  as  you  are  strangely  he  biting  his  lips.  elizabeth  hoped  she  silenced  him;  but  he  soon  afterwards  i  was  surprised  to  see  darcy  in  town  last  month.  we  passed  other  several  times.  i  wonder  what  he  can  be  doing  perhaps  preparing  for  his  marriage  with  miss  de  elizabeth.  it  must  be  something  to  take  him  there  this  time  of  undoubtedly.  did  you  see  him  while  you  were  at  lambton?  thought  i  understood  from  the  gardiners  that  you  yes;  he  introduced  us  to  his  and  do  you  like  very  i  have  that  she  is  uncommonly  improved  this  year  or  two.  when  i  last  saw  she  was  not  promising.  i  am  very  glad  you  liked  her.  i  hope  she  will  turn  i  dare  say  she  will;  she  has  got  over  the  most  trying  did  you  go  by  the  village  of  i  do  not  recollect  that  we  i  mention  because  it  is  the  living  which  i  ought  to  had.  a  most  delightful  excellent  parsonage  house!  it  have  suited  me  in  every  how  should  you  have  liked  making  exceedingly  well.  i  should  have  considered  it  as  part  of  and  the  exertion  would  soon  have  been  nothing.  one  not  to  to  be  it  would  have  been  such  a  for  me!  the  the  retirement  of  such  a  life  would  answered  all  my  ideas  of  happiness!  but  it  was  not  to  be.  did  ever  hear  darcy  mention  the  when  you  were  in  i  heard  from  which  i  thought  as  it  was  left  you  conditionally  and  at  the  will  of  present  you  have.  there  was  something  in  ;  i  told  you  so  the  you  may  i  that  there  was  a  when  making  not  so  palatable  to  you  as  it  seems  to  be  at  present;  that  actually  declared  your  resolution  of  never  taking  that  the  business  had  been  compromised  you  did!  and  it  was  not  wholly  without  foundation.  you  remember  what  i  told  you  on  that  when  first  we  talked  they  were  now  almost  at  the  door  of  the  for  she  had  fast  to  get  rid  of  him;  and  for  her  s  provoke  she  only  said  in  with  a  humoured  mr.  we  are  brother  and  you  know.  do  let  us  quarrel  about  the  past.  in  i  hope  we  shall  always  of  one  she  held  out  her  hand;  he  kissed  it  with  affectionate  though  he  hardly  knew  how  to  and  they  entered  the  chapter  mr.  wickham  was  so  perfectly  satisfied  with  this  that  he  never  again  distressed  or  provoked  his  sister  by  introducing  the  subject  of  it;  and  she  pleased  to  find  that  she  had  said  enough  to  keep  him  the  day  of  his  and  s  departure  soon  and  mrs.  was  forced  to  submit  to  a  as  her  husband  by  means  entered  into  her  scheme  of  their  all  going  to  was  likely  to  continue  at  least  a  oh!  my  dear  she  when  shall  we  meet  lord!  i  t  know.  not  these  two  or  three  write  to  me  very  my  as  often  as  i  can.  but  you  know  married  women  have  never  time  for  writing.  my  sisters  may  write  to  .  they  will  nothing  else  to  mr.  s  adieus  were  much  more  affectionate  than  his  he  looked  and  said  many  pretty  he  is  as  fine  a  said  mr.  as  soon  as  they  out  of  the  as  ever  i  saw.  he  and  makes  love  to  us  all.  i  am  prodigiously  proud  of  him.  i  defy  sir  william  lucas  himself  to  produce  a  more  valuable  the  loss  of  her  daughter  made  mrs.  bennet  very  dull  for  i  often  said  that  there  is  nothing  so  bad  parting  with  s  friends.  one  seems  so  forlorn  without  this  is  the  you  of  marrying  said  elizabeth.  it  must  make  you  better  that  your  other  four  are  it  is  no  such  thing.  lydia  does  not  leave  me  because  she  but  only  because  her  s  regiment  happens  to  be  far  off.  if  that  had  been  she  would  not  have  gone  but  the  spiritless  condition  which  this  event  threw  her  into  shortly  and  her  mind  opened  again  to  the  agitation  by  an  article  of  news  which  then  began  to  be  circulation.  the  housekeeper  at  netherfield  had  received  to  prepare  for  the  arrival  of  her  who  was  coming  down  a  day  or  to  shoot  there  for  several  weeks.  mrs.  bennet  quite  in  the  fidgets.  she  looked  at  and  smiled  and  her  head  by  and  so  mr.  bingley  is  coming  mrs.  phillips  first  brought  her  the  news).  so  much  better.  not  that  i  care  about  though.  he  is  nothing  to  you  and  i  am  sure  i  never  want  to  see  him  again.  he  is  very  welcome  to  come  to  if  he  it.  and  who  knows  what  happen?  but  that  is  nothing  to  you  we  agreed  long  ago  never  to  mention  a  about  it.  and  is  it  quite  certain  he  is  you  may  depend  on  replied  the  for  mrs.  nicholls  in  meryton  last  night;  i  saw  her  passing  and  went  out  on  purpose  to  know  the  truth  of  it;  and  she  told  me  that  it  certain  true.  he  comes  down  on  thursday  at  the  likely  on  wednesday.  she  was  going  to  the  she  told  on  purpose  to  order  in  some  meat  on  and  she  has  three  couple  of  ducks  just  fit  to  be  miss  bennet  had  not  been  able  to  hear  of  his  coming  changing  colour.  it  was  many  months  since  she  had  mentioned  name  to  elizabeth;  but  as  soon  as  they  were  alone  she  i  saw  you  look  at  me  when  my  aunt  told  us  of  present  report;  and  i  know  i  appeared  distressed.  but  imagine  it  was  from  any  silly  cause.  i  was  only  confused  for  because  i  felt  that  i  be  looked  at.  i  do  you  that  the  news  does  not  affect  me  either  with  pleasure  pain.  i  am  glad  of  one  that  he  comes  alone;  because  shall  see  the  less  of  him.  not  that  i  am  afraid  of  i  dread  other  s  elizabeth  did  not  know  what  to  make  of  it.  had  she  not  seen  in  she  might  have  supposed  him  capable  of  there  with  no  other  view  than  what  was  acknowledged;  but  still  thought  him  partial  to  and  she  wavered  as  to  greater  probability  of  his  coming  there  his  or  being  bold  enough  to  come  without  yet  it  is  she  sometimes  that  this  poor  cannot  come  to  a  house  which  he  has  legally  raising  all  this  speculation!  i  leave  him  to  in  spite  of  what  her  sister  and  really  believed  to  her  feelings  in  the  expectation  of  his  elizabeth  easily  perceive  that  her  spirits  were  affected  by  it.  they  more  more  than  she  had  often  seen  the  subject  which  had  been  so  warmly  canvassed  between  about  a  twelvemonth  was  now  brought  forward  as  soon  as  ever  mr.  bingley  my  said  mrs.  you  will  wait  on  him  of  no.  you  forced  me  into  visiting  him  last  and  if  i  went  to  see  he  should  marry  one  of  my  daughters.  but  ended  in  and  i  will  not  be  sent  on  a  s  his  wife  represented  to  him  how  absolutely  necessary  such  attention  would  be  from  all  the  neighbouring  on  returning  to  tis  an  i  said  he.  if  he  wants  let  him  seek  it.  he  knows  where  we  live.  i  will  spend  hours  in  running  after  my  neighbours  every  time  go  away  and  come  back  all  i  know  that  it  will  be  abominably  rude  if  you  not  wait  on  him.  that  t  prevent  my  asking  to  dine  i  am  determined.  we  must  have  mrs.  long  and  gouldings  soon.  that  will  make  thirteen  with  so  will  be  just  room  at  table  for  consoled  by  this  she  was  the  better  able  to  bear  s  incivility;  though  it  was  very  mortifying  to  know  her  neighbours  might  all  see  mr.  in  consequence  of  before  did.  as  the  day  of  his  arrival  drew  i  begin  to  be  sorry  that  he  comes  at  said  jane  to  sister.  it  would  be  nothing;  i  could  see  him  with  but  i  can  hardly  bear  to  hear  it  thus  talked  of.  my  mother  means  well;  but  she  does  not  no  can  how  much  i  suffer  from  what  she  says.  happy  shall  i  when  his  stay  at  netherfield  is  i  wish  i  could  say  anything  to  comfort  replied  but  it  is  wholly  out  of  my  power.  you  must  feel  it;  and  usual  satisfaction  of  preaching  patience  to  a  sufferer  is  because  you  have  always  so  mr.  bingley  arrived.  mrs.  through  the  assistance  contrived  to  have  the  earliest  tidings  of  that  period  of  anxiety  and  fretfulness  on  her  side  might  be  as  long  it  could.  she  counted  the  days  that  must  intervene  before  invitation  could  be  sent;  hopeless  of  seeing  him  before.  but  the  third  morning  after  his  arrival  in  she  from  her  room  enter  the  paddock  and  towards  the  her  daughters  were  eagerly  called  to  partake  of  her  joy.  resolutely  kept  her  place  at  the  table;  but  to  her  went  to  the  she  she  saw  mr.  darcy  and  sat  down  again  by  her  there  is  a  gentleman  with  said  kitty;  who  can  some  acquaintance  or  my  i  suppose;  i  am  sure  i  not  replied  it  looks  just  like  that  man  that  used  to  with  him  before.  mr.  name.  that  proud  good  gracious!  mr.  and  so  it  i  vow.  friend  of  mr.  s  will  always  be  welcome  to  be  but  else  i  must  say  that  i  hate  the  very  sight  of  jane  looked  at  elizabeth  with  surprise  and  concern.  she  knew  little  of  their  meeting  in  and  therefore  felt  for  awkwardness  which  must  attend  her  in  seeing  him  for  the  first  time  after  receiving  his  explanatory  letter.  sisters  were  uncomfortable  enough.  each  felt  for  the  of  course  for  themselves;  and  their  mother  talked  of  dislike  of  mr.  and  her  resolution  to  be  civil  to  him  as  mr.  s  without  being  heard  by  either  of  but  elizabeth  had  sources  of  uneasiness  which  could  not  suspected  by  to  whom  she  had  never  yet  had  courage  to  mrs.  s  or  to  relate  her  own  change  of  towards  him.  to  he  could  be  only  a  man  whose  proposals  had  and  whose  merit  she  had  undervalued;  but  to  her  more  extensive  he  was  the  person  to  whom  the  family  were  indebted  for  the  first  of  and  whom  regarded  herself  with  an  if  not  quite  so  least  as  reasonable  and  just  as  what  jane  felt  for  bingley.  astonishment  at  his  at  his  coming  to  and  voluntarily  seeking  her  was  almost  equal  what  she  had  known  on  first  witnessing  his  altered  behaviour  the  colour  which  had  been  driven  from  her  returned  for  a  minute  with  an  additional  and  a  smile  of  delight  lustre  to  her  as  she  thought  for  that  space  of  time  his  affection  and  wishes  must  still  be  unshaken.  but  she  not  be  let  me  first  see  how  he  said  she;  it  will  then  early  enough  for  she  sat  intently  at  striving  to  be  and  daring  to  lift  up  her  till  anxious  curiosity  carried  to  the  face  of  her  sister  as  the  servant  was  approaching  door.  jane  looked  a  little  paler  than  but  more  sedate  elizabeth  had  expected.  on  the  s  her  increased;  yet  she  received  them  with  tolerable  and  with  propriety  of  behaviour  equally  free  from  any  symptom  resentment  or  any  unnecessary  elizabeth  said  as  little  to  either  as  civility  would  sat  down  again  to  her  with  an  eagerness  which  it  did  often  command.  she  had  ventured  only  one  glance  at  darcy.  looked  as  usual;  she  more  as  he  had  used  to  look  in  than  as  she  had  seen  him  pemberley.  perhaps  he  could  not  in  her  s  presence  what  he  was  before  her  uncle  and  aunt.  it  was  a  but  an  she  had  likewise  seen  for  an  and  in  that  period  saw  him  looking  both  pleased  and  embarrassed.  he  received  by  mrs.  bennet  with  a  degree  of  civility  which  made  two  daughters  especially  when  contrasted  with  the  and  ceremonious  politeness  of  her  curtsey  and  address  to  who  knew  that  her  mother  owed  to  latter  the  preservation  of  her  favourite  daughter  irremediable  was  hurt  and  distressed  to  a  most  degree  by  a  distinction  so  ill  after  enquiring  of  her  how  mr.  and  mrs.  gardiner  question  which  she  could  not  answer  without  scarcely  anything.  he  was  not  seated  by  her;  perhaps  that  was  reason  of  his  silence;  but  it  had  not  been  so  in  there  he  had  talked  to  her  when  he  could  not  to  but  now  several  minutes  elapsed  without  bringing  the  sound  of  voice;  and  when  unable  to  resist  the  impulse  she  raised  her  eyes  to  his  she  as  often  him  looking  at  jane  as  at  and  frequently  on  no  but  the  ground.  more  thoughtfulness  and  less  anxiety  to  than  when  they  last  were  plainly  expressed.  she  and  angry  with  herself  for  being  could  i  expect  it  to  be  said  she.  yet  why  did  she  was  in  no  humour  for  conversation  with  anyone  but  and  to  him  she  had  hardly  courage  to  she  enquired  after  his  but  could  do  no  it  is  a  long  mr.  since  you  went  said  he  readily  agreed  to  i  began  to  be  afraid  you  would  never  come  back  again.  say  you  meant  to  quit  the  place  entirely  at  i  hope  it  is  not  true.  a  great  many  changes  happened  in  the  since  you  went  away.  miss  lucas  married  and  settled.  and  one  of  my  own  daughters.  i  suppose  have  heard  of  it;  you  must  have  seen  it  in  the  papers.  was  in  the  times  and  the  i  know;  though  it  was  not  in  as  it  ought  to  be.  it  was  only  george  esq.  to  miss  lydia  without  there  being  a  syllable  of  her  or  the  place  where  she  or  anything.  it  my  brother  s  drawing  up  and  i  wonder  how  he  came  make  such  an  awkward  business  of  it.  did  you  see  bingley  replied  that  he  and  made  his  elizabeth  dared  not  lift  up  her  eyes.  how  mr.  darcy  she  could  not  it  is  a  delightful  to  be  to  have  a  daughter  continued  her  but  at  the  same  it  is  very  hard  to  have  her  taken  such  a  way  from  they  are  gone  down  to  a  place  quite  and  there  they  are  to  stay  i  do  not  know  how  long.  regiment  is  there;  for  i  suppose  you  have  heard  of  his  the  and  of  his  being  gone  into  the  regulars.  heaven!  he  has  though  perhaps  not  so  many  as  who  knew  this  to  be  levelled  at  mr.  was  in  misery  of  that  she  could  hardly  keep  her  seat.  it  from  the  exertion  of  which  nothing  had  so  effectually  done  before;  and  she  asked  bingley  whether  meant  to  make  any  stay  in  the  country  at  present.  a  few  when  you  have  killed  all  your  own  mr.  said  i  beg  you  will  come  and  shoot  as  many  as  please  on  mr.  s  manor.  i  am  sure  he  will  be  vastly  to  oblige  and  will  save  all  the  best  of  the  covies  for  s  misery  at  such  such  attention!  were  the  same  fair  prospect  to  arise  at  present  as  flattered  them  a  year  every  she  was  be  hastening  to  the  same  vexatious  conclusion.  at  that  she  felt  that  years  of  happiness  could  not  make  jane  or  amends  for  moments  of  such  painful  the  first  wish  of  my  said  she  to  is  never  to  be  in  company  with  either  of  them.  their  society  can  afford  pleasure  that  will  atone  for  such  wretchedness  as  this!  let  never  see  either  one  or  the  other  yet  the  for  which  years  of  happiness  were  to  offer  received  soon  afterwards  material  observing  how  much  the  beauty  of  her  sister  kindled  admiration  of  her  former  lover.  when  first  he  came  he  spoken  to  her  but  little;  but  every  five  minutes  seemed  to  giving  her  more  of  his  attention.  he  found  her  as  handsome  as  had  been  last  year;  as  good  and  as  not  quite  so  chatty.  jane  was  anxious  that  no  difference  be  perceived  in  her  at  and  was  really  persuaded  that  talked  as  much  as  ever.  but  her  mind  was  so  busily  she  did  not  always  know  when  she  was  when  the  gentlemen  rose  to  go  mrs.  bennet  was  mindful  her  intended  and  they  were  invited  and  engaged  to  at  longbourn  in  a  few  days  you  are  quite  a  visit  in  my  mr.  she  when  you  went  to  town  last  you  promised  to  take  a  dinner  with  as  soon  as  you  returned.  i  have  not  see;  and  i  assure  i  was  very  much  disappointed  that  you  not  come  back  and  keep  your  bingley  looked  a  little  silly  at  this  and  something  of  his  concern  at  having  been  prevented  by  they  then  went  mrs.  bennet  had  been  strongly  inclined  to  ask  them  to  stay  dine  there  that  day;  though  she  always  kept  a  very  she  did  not  think  anything  less  than  two  courses  could  good  enough  for  a  man  on  whom  she  had  such  anxious  satisfy  the  appetite  and  pride  of  one  who  had  ten  thousand  chapter  as  soon  as  they  were  elizabeth  walked  out  to  recover  spirits;  or  in  other  to  dwell  without  interruption  those  subjects  that  must  deaden  them  more.  mr.  s  astonished  and  vexed  if  he  came  only  to  be  and  did  he  come  at  she  could  settle  it  in  no  way  that  gave  her  he  could  be  still  still  to  my  uncle  and  when  he  was  in  town;  and  why  not  to  me?  if  he  fears  why  hither?  if  he  no  longer  cares  for  why  silent?  man!  i  will  think  no  more  about  her  resolution  was  for  a  short  time  involuntarily  kept  by  approach  of  her  who  joined  her  with  a  cheerful  which  showed  her  better  satisfied  with  their  said  that  this  first  meeting  is  i  perfectly  easy.  i  know  my  own  and  i  shall  never  embarrassed  again  by  his  coming.  i  am  glad  he  dines  here  tuesday.  it  will  then  be  publicly  seen  on  both  meet  only  as  common  and  indifferent  very  indifferent  said  laughingly.  take  my  dear  you  cannot  think  me  so  as  to  be  in  i  think  you  are  in  very  great  danger  of  making  him  as  much  love  with  you  as  they  did  not  see  the  gentlemen  again  till  tuesday;  and  in  the  was  giving  way  to  all  the  which  the  good  humour  and  common  politeness  of  in  half  an  s  had  on  tuesday  there  was  a  large  party  assembled  at  longbourn;  the  two  who  were  most  anxiously  to  the  credit  of  punctuality  as  were  in  very  good  time.  when  repaired  to  the  elizabeth  eagerly  watched  to  whether  bingley  would  take  the  in  all  their  had  belonged  to  by  her  sister.  her  prudent  occupied  by  the  same  forbore  to  invite  him  to  sit  herself.  on  entering  the  he  seemed  to  hesitate;  but  happened  to  look  and  happened  to  smile:  it  was  decided.  placed  himself  by  with  a  triumphant  looked  towards  friend.  he  bore  it  with  noble  and  she  would  imagined  that  bingley  had  received  his  sanction  to  be  she  not  seen  his  eyes  likewise  turned  towards  mr.  with  expression  of  laughing  his  behaviour  to  her  sister  was  during  dinner  showed  an  admiration  of  though  more  guarded  persuaded  that  if  left  wholly  to  s  and  his  would  be  speedily  secured.  she  dared  not  depend  upon  the  she  yet  pleasure  from  observing  his  behaviour.  it  gave  her  all  animation  that  her  spirits  could  boast;  for  she  was  in  cheerful  humour.  mr.  darcy  was  almost  as  far  from  her  as  table  could  divide  them.  he  was  on  one  side  of  her  mother.  knew  how  little  such  a  situation  would  give  pleasure  to  or  make  either  appear  to  advantage.  she  was  not  near  enough  hear  any  of  their  but  she  could  see  how  seldom  spoke  to  each  and  how  formal  and  cold  was  their  whenever  they  did.  her  s  made  the  sense  what  they  owed  him  more  painful  to  s  mind;  and  at  have  given  anything  to  be  privileged  to  tell  that  his  kindness  was  neither  unknown  nor  unfelt  by  the  whole  the  she  was  in  hopes  that  the  evening  would  afford  some  of  bringing  them  together;  that  the  whole  of  the  visit  would  pass  away  without  enabling  them  to  enter  into  something  more  conversation  than  the  mere  ceremonious  salutation  attending  entrance.  anxious  and  the  period  which  passed  in  before  the  gentlemen  was  wearisome  and  to  a  degree  that  almost  made  her  uncivil.  she  looked  forward  their  entrance  as  the  point  on  which  all  her  chance  of  for  the  evening  must  if  he  does  not  come  to  said  i  shall  give  up  for  the  gentlemen  came;  and  she  thought  he  looked  as  if  he  would  answered  her  hopes;  alas!  the  ladies  had  crowded  round  where  miss  bennet  was  making  and  elizabeth  out  the  in  so  close  a  confederacy  that  there  was  not  single  vacancy  near  her  which  would  admit  of  a  chair.  and  on  s  one  of  the  girls  moved  closer  to  than  and  in  a  the  men  t  come  and  part  i  am  determined.  we  want  of  them;  do  darcy  had  walked  away  to  another  part  of  the  room.  she  him  with  her  envied  everyone  to  whom  he  had  patience  enough  to  help  anybody  to  coffee;  and  then  was  against  herself  for  being  so  a  man  who  has  once  been  refused!  how  could  i  ever  be  enough  to  expect  a  renewal  of  his  love?  is  there  one  among  who  would  not  protest  against  such  a  weakness  as  a  proposal  to  the  same  woman?  there  is  no  indignity  so  abhorrent  their  she  was  a  little  by  his  bringing  back  coffee  cup  himself;  and  she  seized  the  opportunity  of  is  your  sister  at  pemberley  she  will  remain  there  till  and  quite  alone?  have  all  her  friends  left  mrs.  annesley  is  with  her.  the  others  have  been  gone  on  these  three  she  could  think  of  nothing  more  to  say;  but  if  he  wished  converse  with  he  might  have  better  success.  he  stood  by  for  some  in  silence;  at  on  the  s  whispering  to  elizabeth  he  walked  when  the  things  were  and  the  tables  ladies  all  and  elizabeth  was  then  hoping  to  be  soon  by  when  all  her  views  were  overthrown  by  seeing  him  fall  victim  to  her  s  rapacity  for  whist  and  in  a  moments  after  seated  with  the  rest  of  the  party.  she  now  every  expectation  of  pleasure.  they  were  confined  for  the  at  different  and  she  had  nothing  to  but  that  eyes  were  so  often  turned  towards  her  side  of  the  as  make  him  play  as  unsuccessfully  as  mrs.  bennet  had  designed  to  keep  the  two  netherfield  gentlemen  supper;  but  their  carriage  was  unluckily  ordered  before  any  the  and  she  had  no  opportunity  of  detaining  well  said  as  soon  as  they  were  left  to  what  say  you  to  the  day?  i  think  every  thing  has  passed  uncommonly  i  assure  you.  the  dinner  was  as  well  dressed  any  i  ever  saw.  the  venison  was  roasted  to  a  and  said  they  never  saw  so  fat  a  haunch.  the  soup  was  fifty  better  than  what  we  had  at  the  last  week;  and  even  darcy  that  the  partridges  were  remarkably  done;  and  i  suppose  he  has  two  or  three  french  cooks  at  my  dear  i  never  saw  you  look  in  greater  beauty.  long  said  so  for  i  asked  her  whether  you  did  not.  and  do  you  think  she  said  besides?  ah!  mrs.  we  shall  her  at  netherfield  at  she  did  indeed.  i  do  think  mrs.  is  as  good  a  creature  as  ever  and  her  nieces  are  pretty  behaved  and  not  at  all  handsome:  i  like  mrs.  in  was  in  very  great  spirits;  she  had  enough  of  s  behaviour  to  to  be  convinced  that  would  get  him  at  last;  and  her  expectations  of  advantage  to  when  in  a  happy  were  so  far  beyond  she  was  quite  disappointed  at  not  seeing  him  there  again  the  to  make  his  it  has  been  a  very  agreeable  said  miss  bennet  elizabeth.  the  party  seemed  so  well  so  suitable  with  the  other.  i  hope  we  may  often  meet  elizabeth  you  must  not  do  so.  you  must  not  suspect  me.  it  me.  i  assure  you  that  i  have  now  learnt  to  enjoy  his  as  an  agreeable  and  sensible  young  without  having  a  beyond  it.  i  am  perfectly  from  what  his  manners  that  he  never  had  any  design  of  engaging  my  affection.  it  only  that  he  is  blessed  with  greater  sweetness  of  and  stronger  desire  of  generally  than  any  other  you  are  very  said  her  you  will  not  let  and  are  provoking  me  to  it  every  how  hard  it  is  in  some  cases  to  be  and  how  impossible  in  but  why  should  you  wish  to  persuade  me  that  i  feel  more  than  that  is  a  question  which  i  hardly  know  how  to  answer.  we  love  to  though  we  can  teach  only  what  is  not  knowing.  forgive  me;  and  if  you  persist  in  do  make  your  chapter  a  few  days  after  this  mr.  bingley  called  and  his  friend  had  left  him  that  morning  for  but  was  return  home  in  ten  days  time.  he  sat  with  them  above  an  was  in  remarkably  good  spirits.  mrs.  bennet  invited  him  to  with  them;  with  many  expressions  of  he  himself  engaged  next  time  you  said  i  hope  we  shall  be  more  he  should  be  particularly  happy  at  any  etc.  etc.;  and  she  would  give  him  would  take  an  early  opportunity  waiting  on  can  you  come  he  had  no  engagement  at  all  for  morrow;  and  invitation  was  accepted  with  he  and  in  such  very  good  time  that  the  ladies  were  none  them  dressed.  in  ran  mrs.  bennet  to  her  s  in  dressing  and  with  her  hair  half  crying  my  dear  make  haste  and  hurry  down.  he  is  mr.  is  come.  he  indeed.  make  make  haste.  to  miss  bennet  this  and  help  her  on  with  her  gown.  mind  miss  s  we  will  be  down  as  soon  as  we  said  jane;  but  i  dare  kitty  is  forwarder  than  either  of  for  she  went  up  stairs  an  hour  oh!  hang  kitty!  what  has  she  to  do  with  it?  come  be  quick!  where  is  your  my  but  when  her  mother  was  jane  would  not  be  prevailed  on  go  down  without  one  of  her  the  same  anxiety  to  get  them  by  themselves  was  visible  again  the  evening.  after  mr.  bennet  retired  to  the  as  his  and  mary  went  up  stairs  to  her  instrument.  obstacles  of  the  five  being  thus  mrs.  bennet  sat  and  winking  at  elizabeth  and  catherine  for  a  considerable  without  making  any  impression  on  them.  elizabeth  would  observe  her;  and  when  at  last  kitty  she  very  what  is  the  matter  mamma?  what  do  you  keep  winking  at  for?  what  am  i  to  nothing  nothing.  i  did  not  wink  at  she  then  still  five  minutes  longer;  but  unable  to  waste  such  a  she  suddenly  got  and  saying  to  come  my  i  want  to  speak  to  took  her  out  of  the  room.  instantly  gave  a  look  at  elizabeth  which  spoke  her  distress  such  and  her  entreaty  that  would  not  give  to  it.  in  a  few  mrs.  bennet  opened  the  door  called  my  i  want  to  speak  with  elizabeth  was  forced  to  we  may  as  well  leave  them  by  themselves  you  said  as  soon  as  she  was  in  the  hall.  kitty  and  i  are  going  stairs  to  sit  in  my  elizabeth  made  no  attempt  to  reason  with  her  but  quietly  in  the  till  she  and  kitty  were  out  of  returned  into  the  mrs.  s  schemes  for  this  day  were  ineffectual.  bingley  every  thing  that  was  except  the  professed  lover  of  daughter.  his  ease  and  cheerfulness  rendered  him  a  most  addition  to  their  evening  party;  and  he  bore  with  the  officiousness  of  the  and  heard  all  her  silly  remarks  a  forbearance  and  command  of  countenance  particularly  grateful  the  he  scarcely  needed  an  invitation  to  stay  supper;  and  before  went  an  engagement  was  chiefly  through  his  own  mrs.  s  for  his  coming  next  morning  to  shoot  her  after  this  jane  said  no  more  of  her  indifference.  not  a  passed  between  the  sisters  concerning  bingley;  but  elizabeth  to  bed  in  the  happy  belief  that  all  must  speedily  be  unless  mr.  darcy  returned  within  the  stated  time.  she  felt  tolerably  persuaded  that  all  this  must  taken  place  with  that  s  bingley  was  punctual  to  his  appointment;  and  he  and  mr.  spent  the  morning  as  had  been  agreed  on.  the  latter  much  more  agreeable  than  his  companion  expected.  there  nothing  of  presumption  or  folly  in  bingley  that  could  provoke  or  disgust  him  into  silence;  and  he  was  and  less  than  the  other  had  ever  him.  bingley  of  course  returned  with  him  to  dinner;  and  in  evening  mrs.  s  invention  was  again  at  work  to  get  body  away  from  him  and  her  daughter.  who  had  a  to  went  into  the  breakfast  room  for  that  purpose  after  tea;  for  as  the  others  were  all  going  to  sit  down  to  she  could  not  be  wanted  to  counteract  her  s  but  on  returning  to  the  when  her  letter  she  to  her  infinite  there  was  reason  fear  that  her  mother  had  been  too  ingenious  for  her.  on  the  she  perceived  her  sister  and  bingley  standing  over  the  as  if  engaged  in  earnest  conversation;  and  this  led  to  no  the  faces  of  as  they  turned  round  and  moved  away  from  each  would  have  told  all.  situation  was  awkward  enough;  but  she  was  still  worse.  not  a  syllable  was  uttered  by  either;  elizabeth  was  on  the  point  of  going  away  when  as  well  as  the  other  had  sat  suddenly  and  a  few  words  to  her  ran  out  of  the  jane  could  have  no  reserves  from  where  would  give  pleasure;  and  instantly  embracing  with  the  liveliest  that  she  was  the  happiest  creature  the  tis  too  she  by  far  too  much.  i  do  not  it.  oh!  why  is  not  everybody  as  s  congratulations  were  given  with  a  a  which  words  could  but  poorly  express.  sentence  of  kindness  was  a  fresh  source  of  happiness  to  jane.  she  would  not  allow  herself  to  stay  with  her  or  say  that  remained  to  be  said  for  the  i  must  go  instantly  to  my  she  cried.  i  would  not  any  account  trifle  with  her  affectionate  solicitude;  or  allow  to  hear  it  from  anyone  but  myself.  he  is  gone  to  my  already.  oh!  to  know  that  what  i  have  to  relate  will  such  pleasure  to  all  my  dear  family!  how  shall  i  bear  so  she  then  hastened  away  to  her  who  had  purposely  broken  the  card  and  was  sitting  up  stairs  with  who  was  left  by  now  smiled  at  the  and  ease  with  which  an  affair  was  finally  that  had  them  so  many  previous  months  of  suspense  and  and  said  is  the  end  of  all  his  s  circumspection!  of  all  his  s  falsehood  and  the  most  reasonable  in  a  few  minutes  she  was  joined  by  whose  conference  her  father  had  been  short  and  to  the  where  is  your  said  he  as  he  opened  the  with  my  mother  up  stairs.  she  will  be  down  in  a  i  he  then  shut  the  coming  up  to  claimed  the  wishes  and  affection  of  a  sister.  elizabeth  honestly  and  expressed  her  delight  in  the  prospect  of  their  relationship.  shook  hands  with  great  cordiality;  and  till  her  sister  she  had  to  listen  to  all  he  had  to  say  of  his  and  of  s  perfections;  and  in  spite  of  his  being  elizabeth  really  believed  all  his  expectations  of  to  be  rationally  because  they  had  for  basis  excellent  and  excellent  disposition  of  and  a  general  similarity  of  feeling  and  taste  between  her  it  was  an  evening  of  no  common  delight  to  them  all;  satisfaction  of  miss  s  mind  gave  a  glow  of  such  animation  to  her  as  made  her  look  handsomer  than  kitty  simpered  and  and  hoped  her  turn  was  coming  mrs.  bennet  could  not  give  her  consent  or  speak  her  in  terms  warm  enough  to  satisfy  her  though  she  to  bingley  of  nothing  else  for  half  an  hour;  and  when  mr.  joined  them  at  his  voice  and  manner  plainly  showed  really  happy  he  not  a  passed  his  lips  in  allusion  to  their  visitor  took  his  leave  for  the  night;  but  as  soon  as  he  he  turned  to  his  and  i  congratulate  you.  you  will  be  a  very  happy  jane  went  to  him  kissed  and  thanked  him  for  you  are  a  good  he  and  i  have  great  pleasure  thinking  you  will  be  so  happily  settled.  i  have  not  a  doubt  your  doing  very  well  together.  your  tempers  are  by  no  unlike.  you  are  each  of  you  so  that  nothing  will  be  resolved  on;  so  that  every  servant  will  cheat  you;  so  that  you  will  always  exceed  your  i  hope  not  so.  imprudence  or  thoughtlessness  in  money  would  be  unpardonable  in  exceed  their  income!  my  dear  mr.  cried  his  are  you  talking  of?  he  has  four  or  five  thousand  a  very  likely  then  addressing  her  oh!  my  dear  i  am  so  happy!  i  am  sure  i  t  get  a  wink  of  all  night.  i  knew  how  it  would  be.  i  always  said  it  must  be  at  last.  i  was  sure  you  could  not  be  so  beautiful  for  nothing!  as  soon  as  ever  i  saw  when  he  first  came  hertfordshire  last  i  thought  how  likely  it  was  that  should  come  together.  oh!  he  is  the  handsomest  young  man  ever  was  were  all  forgotten.  jane  was  beyond  her  favourite  child.  at  that  she  cared  for  no  other.  younger  sisters  soon  began  to  make  interest  with  her  for  of  happiness  which  she  might  in  future  be  able  to  mary  petitioned  for  the  use  of  the  library  at  netherfield;  kitty  begged  very  hard  for  a  few  balls  there  every  from  this  was  of  course  a  daily  visitor  longbourn;  coming  frequently  before  and  remaining  till  after  supper;  unless  when  some  who  could  not  be  enough  had  given  him  invitation  to  dinner  which  he  thought  himself  obliged  to  elizabeth  had  now  but  little  time  for  conversation  with  sister;  for  while  he  was  jane  had  no  attention  to  on  anyone  else;  but  she  found  herself  considerably  useful  to  of  them  in  those  hours  of  separation  that  must  sometimes  in  the  absence  of  he  always  attached  himself  to  for  the  pleasure  of  talking  of  her;  and  when  bingley  was  jane  constantly  sought  the  same  means  of  he  has  made  me  so  said  one  by  telling  that  he  was  totally  ignorant  of  my  being  in  town  last  spring!  had  not  believed  it  i  suspected  as  replied  elizabeth.  but  how  did  he  for  it  must  have  been  his  s  doing.  they  were  certainly  friends  to  his  acquaintance  with  which  i  cannot  wonder  since  he  might  have  chosen  so  much  more  advantageously  in  respects.  but  when  they  as  i  trust  they  that  brother  is  happy  with  they  will  learn  to  be  and  shall  be  on  good  terms  again;  though  we  can  never  be  what  we  were  to  each  that  is  the  most  unforgiving  said  that  ever  heard  you  utter.  good  girl!  it  would  vex  to  you  again  the  dupe  of  miss  s  pretended  would  you  believe  that  when  he  went  to  town  he  really  loved  and  nothing  but  a  persuasion  being  indifferent  would  have  prevented  his  coming  he  made  a  little  mistake  to  be  sure;  but  it  is  to  the  credit  his  this  naturally  introduced  a  panegyric  from  jane  on  and  the  little  value  he  put  on  his  own  qualities.  elizabeth  was  pleased  to  find  that  he  had  not  the  interference  of  his  friend;  though  jane  had  the  generous  and  forgiving  heart  in  the  she  knew  it  was  circumstance  which  must  prejudice  her  against  i  am  certainly  the  most  fortunate  creature  that  ever  cried  jane.  oh!  why  am  i  thus  singled  from  my  blessed  above  them  all!  if  i  could  but  see  you  as  happy!  if  were  but  such  another  man  for  if  you  were  to  give  me  forty  such  i  never  could  be  so  as  you.  till  i  have  your  your  i  never  have  your  happiness.  let  me  shift  for  myself;  if  i  have  very  good  i  may  meet  with  another  collins  in  the  situation  of  affairs  in  the  longbourn  family  could  not  long  a  secret.  mrs.  bennet  was  privileged  to  whisper  it  to  and  she  without  any  to  do  same  by  all  her  neighbours  in  the  bennets  were  speedily  pronounced  to  be  the  luckiest  family  the  though  only  a  few  weeks  when  lydia  had  run  they  had  been  generally  proved  to  be  marked  out  chapter  one  about  a  week  after  s  engagement  with  had  been  as  he  and  the  females  of  the  family  were  together  in  the  their  attention  was  suddenly  to  the  by  the  sound  of  a  carriage;  and  they  perceived  chaise  and  four  driving  up  the  lawn.  it  was  too  early  in  morning  for  and  the  equipage  did  not  answer  that  of  any  of  their  neighbours.  the  horses  were  post;  neither  the  nor  the  livery  of  the  servant  who  were  familiar  to  them.  as  it  was  somebody  was  bingley  instantly  prevailed  on  miss  to  avoid  the  confinement  of  such  an  and  walk  away  him  into  the  shrubbery.  they  both  set  and  the  conjectures  the  remaining  three  though  with  little  till  the  door  was  thrown  open  and  their  visitor  entered.  it  lady  catherine  de  they  were  of  course  all  intending  to  be  surprised;  but  astonishment  was  beyond  their  expectation;  and  on  the  part  mrs.  bennet  and  though  she  was  perfectly  unknown  to  even  inferior  to  what  elizabeth  she  entered  the  room  with  an  air  more  than  usually  made  no  other  reply  to  s  salutation  than  a  inclination  of  the  and  sat  down  without  saying  a  elizabeth  had  mentioned  her  name  to  her  mother  on  her  though  no  request  of  introduction  had  been  mrs.  all  though  flattered  by  having  a  guest  such  high  received  her  with  the  utmost  after  sitting  for  a  moment  in  she  said  very  stiffly  i  hope  you  are  miss  bennet.  that  i  is  elizabeth  replied  very  concisely  that  she  and  i  suppose  is  one  of  your  said  mrs.  delighted  to  speak  to  catherine.  she  is  my  youngest  girl  but  one.  my  youngest  of  is  lately  and  my  eldest  is  somewhere  about  the  walking  with  a  young  man  i  will  soon  become  a  of  the  you  have  a  very  small  park  returned  lady  catherine  a  short  it  is  nothing  in  comparison  of  my  i  dare  say;  i  assure  you  it  is  much  larger  than  sir  william  this  must  be  a  most  inconvenient  sitting  room  for  the  in  summer;  the  windows  are  full  mrs.  bennet  assured  her  that  they  never  sat  there  after  and  then  may  i  take  the  liberty  of  asking  your  ladyship  whether  you  mr.  and  mrs.  collins  very  well.  i  saw  them  the  night  before  elizabeth  now  expected  that  she  would  produce  a  letter  for  from  as  it  seemed  the  only  probable  motive  for  calling.  but  no  letter  and  she  was  completely  mrs.  with  great  begged  her  ladyship  to  some  refreshment;  but  lady  catherine  very  and  very  declined  eating  anything;  and  rising  said  to  miss  there  seemed  to  be  a  prettyish  kind  of  a  wilderness  on  one  side  of  your  lawn.  i  should  be  glad  to  take  turn  in  if  you  will  favour  me  with  your  my  cried  her  and  show  her  ladyship  about  different  walks.  i  think  she  will  be  pleased  with  the  elizabeth  and  running  into  her  own  room  for  her  attended  her  noble  guest  downstairs.  as  they  passed  through  lady  catherine  opened  the  doors  into  the  parlour  and  pronouncing  after  a  short  to  decent  looking  walked  her  carriage  remained  at  the  and  elizabeth  saw  that  woman  was  in  it.  they  proceeded  in  silence  along  gravel  walk  that  led  to  the  copse;  elizabeth  was  determined  make  no  effort  for  conversation  with  a  woman  who  was  now  than  usually  insolent  and  how  could  i  ever  think  her  like  her  said  as  looked  in  her  as  soon  as  they  entered  the  lady  catherine  began  in  following  you  can  be  at  no  miss  to  understand  the  reason  my  journey  hither.  your  own  your  own  must  you  why  i  elizabeth  looked  with  unaffected  you  are  madam.  i  have  not  been  at  all  able  account  for  the  honour  of  seeing  you  miss  replied  her  in  an  angry  you  to  that  i  am  not  to  be  trifled  with.  but  however  may  choose  to  you  shall  not  find  so.  my  has  ever  been  celebrated  for  its  sincerity  and  and  a  cause  of  such  moment  as  i  shall  certainly  not  depart  it.  a  report  of  a  most  alarming  nature  reached  me  two  days  ago.  was  told  that  not  only  your  sister  was  on  the  point  of  being  advantageously  but  that  that  miss  elizabeth  in  all  be  soon  afterwards  united  to  my  my  own  mr.  darcy.  though  i  it  must  be  a  though  i  would  not  injure  him  so  much  as  to  the  truth  of  it  i  instantly  resolved  on  setting  off  this  that  i  might  make  my  sentiments  known  to  if  you  believed  it  impossible  to  be  said  colouring  with  astonishment  and  i  wonder  you  took  trouble  of  coming  so  far.  what  could  your  ladyship  propose  at  once  to  insist  upon  having  such  a  report  your  coming  to  to  see  me  and  my  elizabeth  will  be  rather  a  confirmation  of  it;  such  a  report  is  in  if!  do  you  then  pretend  to  be  ignorant  of  it?  has  it  not  industriously  circulated  by  yourselves?  do  you  not  know  that  a  report  is  spread  i  never  heard  that  it  and  can  you  likewise  that  there  is  no  i  do  not  pretend  to  possess  equal  frankness  with  your  may  ask  questions  which  shall  not  choose  to  this  is  not  to  be  borne.  miss  i  insist  on  satisfied.  has  has  my  made  you  an  offer  of  your  ladyship  has  declared  it  to  be  it  ought  to  be  so;  it  must  be  while  he  retains  the  use  his  reason.  but  arts  and  allurements  in  a  moment  have  made  him  forget  what  he  owes  to  himself  and  all  his  family.  you  may  have  drawn  him  if  i  i  shall  be  the  last  person  to  confess  miss  do  you  know  who  i  am?  i  have  not  been  accustomed  such  language  as  this.  i  am  almost  the  nearest  relation  he  has  the  and  am  entitled  to  know  all  his  dearest  but  you  are  not  entitled  to  know  nor  will  such  as  ever  induce  me  to  be  let  me  be  rightly  understood.  this  to  which  you  have  presumption  to  can  never  take  place.  never.  mr.  is  engaged  to  my  .  now  what  have  you  to  only  this;  that  if  he  is  you  can  have  no  reason  to  he  will  make  an  offer  to  lady  catherine  hesitated  for  a  and  then  the  engagement  between  them  is  of  a  peculiar  kind.  from  they  have  been  intended  for  each  other.  it  was  favourite  wish  of  as  well  as  of  hers.  while  their  we  planned  the  union:  and  at  the  moment  the  wishes  of  both  sisters  would  be  accomplished  in  to  be  prevented  by  a  young  woman  of  inferior  no  importance  in  the  and  wholly  unallied  to  the  family!  you  pay  no  regard  to  the  wishes  of  his  friends?  to  his  engagement  with  miss  de  bourgh?  are  you  lost  to  every  feeling  propriety  and  delicacy?  have  you  not  heard  me  say  that  from  earliest  hours  he  was  destined  for  his  and  i  had  heard  it  before.  but  what  is  that  to  me?  if  is  no  other  objection  to  my  marrying  your  i  certainly  not  be  kept  from  it  by  knowing  that  his  mother  and  wished  him  to  marry  miss  de  bourgh.  you  both  did  as  much  as  could  in  planning  the  marriage.  its  completion  depended  others.  if  mr.  darcy  is  neither  by  honour  nor  confined  to  his  why  is  not  he  to  make  another  choice?  if  i  am  that  why  may  not  i  accept  because  forbid  miss  interest;  for  do  not  expect  to  be  noticed  his  family  or  if  you  wilfully  act  against  inclinations  of  all.  you  will  be  by  everyone  connected  with  him.  your  alliance  will  be  disgrace;  your  name  will  never  even  be  mentioned  by  any  of  these  are  heavy  replied  elizabeth.  but  the  of  mr.  darcy  must  have  such  extraordinary  sources  of  necessarily  attached  to  her  that  she  upon  have  no  cause  to  headstrong  girl!  i  am  ashamed  of  you!  is  this  gratitude  for  my  attentions  to  you  last  spring?  is  nothing  due  me  on  that  score?  let  us  sit  down.  you  are  to  that  i  came  here  with  the  determined  resolution  carrying  my  purpose;  nor  will  i  be  dissuaded  from  it.  i  have  been  used  to  submit  to  any  s  whims.  i  have  not  been  in  habit  of  brooking  will  make  your  s  situation  at  present  pitiable;  but  it  will  have  no  effect  on  i  will  not  be  interrupted.  hear  me  in  silence.  my  daughter  my  nephew  are  formed  for  each  other.  they  are  on  maternal  from  the  same  noble  line;  on  the  from  and  families.  their  fortune  on  both  sides  is  splendid.  are  destined  for  each  other  by  the  voice  of  every  member  of  respective  houses;  and  what  is  to  divide  them?  the  pretensions  of  a  young  woman  without  fortune.  is  this  to  be  endured!  but  it  must  shall  not  be.  you  were  sensible  of  your  own  you  would  not  wish  to  the  sphere  in  which  you  have  been  brought  in  marrying  your  i  should  not  consider  myself  quitting  that  sphere.  he  is  a  gentleman;  i  am  a  daughter;  so  far  we  are  true.  you  a  s  daughter.  but  who  was  your  who  are  your  uncles  and  aunts?  do  not  imagine  me  ignorant  their  whatever  my  connections  may  said  if  your  does  not  object  to  they  can  be  nothing  to  tell  me  once  for  are  you  engaged  to  though  elizabeth  would  for  the  mere  purpose  of  obliging  have  answered  this  she  could  not  but  after  a  s  i  am  lady  catherine  seemed  and  will  you  promise  never  to  enter  into  such  i  will  make  no  promise  of  the  miss  bennet  i  am  shocked  and  astonished.  i  expected  to  find  more  reasonable  young  woman.  but  do  not  deceive  yourself  into  belief  that  i  will  ever  recede.  i  shall  not  go  away  till  you  given  me  the  assurance  i  and  i  certainly  shall  give  it.  i  am  not  to  intimidated  into  anything  so  wholly  unreasonable.  your  wants  mr.  darcy  to  marry  your  daughter;  but  would  my  giving  the  for  promise  make  marriage  at  all  probable?  supposing  him  to  be  attached  to  would  to  accept  his  hand  make  him  wish  to  bestow  it  on  his  allow  me  to  lady  that  the  arguments  with  you  have  supported  this  extraordinary  application  have  been  frivolous  as  the  application  was  judged.  you  have  mistaken  my  if  you  think  i  can  be  worked  on  by  persuasions  as  these.  how  far  your  nephew  might  approve  of  interference  in  i  cannot  tell;  but  you  certainly  no  right  to  concern  yourself  in  mine.  i  must  to  be  importuned  no  farther  on  the  not  so  if  you  please.  i  have  by  no  means  done.  to  all  objections  i  have  already  i  have  still  another  to  add.  am  no  stranger  to  the  particulars  of  your  youngest  infamous  elopement.  i  know  it  all;  that  the  young  s  her  was  a  up  at  the  expence  of  your  father  uncles.  and  is  a  girl  to  be  my  s  sister?  is  who  is  the  son  of  his  late  s  to  be  brother?  heaven  and  of  what  are  you  thinking?  are  shades  of  pemberley  to  be  thus  you  can  have  nothing  further  to  she  answered.  you  have  insulted  me  in  every  possible  method.  i  beg  to  return  to  the  and  she  rose  as  she  spoke.  lady  catherine  rose  and  turned  back.  her  ladyship  was  highly  you  have  no  for  the  honour  and  credit  of  nephew!  selfish  girl!  do  you  not  consider  that  connection  with  you  must  disgrace  him  in  the  eyes  of  lady  i  have  nothing  further  to  say.  you  know  you  are  then  resolved  to  have  i  have  said  no  such  thing.  i  am  only  resolved  to  act  in  which  in  my  own  constitute  my  without  reference  to  or  to  any  person  so  unconnected  with  it  is  well.  you  to  oblige  me.  you  refuse  to  the  claims  of  and  gratitude.  you  are  determined  ruin  him  in  the  opinion  of  all  his  and  make  him  contempt  of  the  neither  nor  nor  replied  have  any  possible  claim  on  in  the  present  instance.  principle  of  either  would  be  violated  by  my  marriage  with  darcy.  and  with  regard  to  the  resentment  of  his  or  indignation  of  the  if  the  former  excited  by  marrying  it  would  not  give  me  one  s  and  world  in  general  would  have  too  much  sense  to  join  in  the  and  this  is  your  real  opinion!  this  is  your  final  resolve!  well.  i  shall  now  know  how  to  act.  do  not  miss  that  your  ambition  will  ever  be  gratified.  i  came  to  try  you.  hoped  to  find  you  reasonable;  depend  upon  i  will  my  in  this  manner  lady  catherine  talked  till  they  were  at  door  of  the  turning  hastily  she  take  no  leave  of  miss  bennet.  i  send  no  compliments  to  mother.  you  deserve  no  such  attention.  i  am  most  elizabeth  made  no  answer;  and  without  attempting  to  persuade  ladyship  to  return  into  the  walked  quietly  into  herself.  she  heard  the  carriage  drive  away  as  she  proceeded  stairs.  her  mother  impatiently  met  her  at  the  door  of  to  ask  why  lady  catherine  would  not  come  in  and  rest  she  did  not  choose  said  her  she  would  she  is  a  very  looking  woman!  and  her  calling  here  prodigiously  civil!  for  she  only  i  to  tell  us  collinses  were  well.  she  is  on  her  road  i  dare  and  passing  through  thought  she  might  as  well  on  you.  i  suppose  she  had  nothing  particular  to  say  to  elizabeth  was  forced  to  give  into  a  little  falsehood  here;  for  acknowledge  the  substance  of  their  conversation  was  chapter  the  discomposure  of  spirits  which  this  extraordinary  visit  elizabeth  could  not  be  easily  overcome;  nor  could  many  learn  to  think  of  it  less  than  incessantly.  it  had  actually  taken  the  trouble  of  journey  from  for  the  sole  purpose  of  breaking  off  supposed  engagement  with  mr.  darcy.  it  was  a  rational  be  sure!  but  from  what  the  report  of  their  engagement  elizabeth  was  at  a  loss  to  imagine;  till  recollected  that  being  the  intimate  friend  of  being  the  sister  of  was  at  a  time  when  expectation  of  one  wedding  made  everybody  eager  for  supply  the  idea.  she  had  not  herself  forgotten  to  feel  that  marriage  of  her  sister  must  bring  them  more  frequently  and  her  neighbours  at  lucas  therefore  (for  through  communication  with  the  the  she  reached  lady  had  only  set  down  as  certain  and  which  had  looked  forward  to  possible  at  some  future  in  revolving  lady  s  she  could  help  feeling  some  uneasiness  as  to  the  possible  consequence  her  persisting  in  this  interference.  from  what  she  had  said  her  resolution  to  prevent  their  it  occurred  elizabeth  that  she  must  meditate  an  application  to  her  and  how  he  might  take  a  similar  representation  of  the  attached  to  a  connection  with  she  dared  not  pronounce.  knew  not  the  exact  degree  of  his  affection  for  his  or  dependence  on  her  but  it  was  natural  to  suppose  that  thought  much  higher  of  her  ladyship  than  could  do;  and  was  certain  in  enumerating  the  miseries  of  a  marriage  whose  immediate  connections  were  so  unequal  to  his  his  aunt  would  address  him  on  his  weakest  side.  with  his  of  he  would  probably  feel  that  the  which  elizabeth  had  appeared  weak  and  contained  much  sense  and  solid  if  he  had  been  wavering  before  as  to  what  he  should  which  often  seemed  the  advice  and  entreaty  of  so  near  relation  might  settle  every  and  determine  him  at  once  be  as  happy  as  dignity  unblemished  could  make  him.  in  that  he  would  return  no  more.  lady  catherine  might  see  him  in  her  through  town;  and  his  engagement  to  bingley  of  coming  again  netherfield  must  give  an  excuse  for  not  keeping  his  promise  should  to  his  friend  within  a  few  she  i  shall  know  how  understand  it.  i  shall  then  give  over  every  wish  of  his  constancy.  if  he  is  satisfied  with  only  when  he  might  have  obtained  my  affections  and  i  soon  cease  to  regret  him  at  the  surprise  of  the  rest  of  the  on  hearing  who  visitor  had  was  very  great;  but  they  obligingly  with  the  same  kind  of  supposition  which  had  appeased  s  curiosity;  and  elizabeth  was  spared  from  much  teasing  the  the  next  as  she  was  going  she  was  met  by  who  came  out  of  his  library  with  a  letter  in  his  said  i  was  going  to  look  for  you;  come  into  she  followed  him  thither;  and  her  curiosity  to  know  what  he  to  tell  her  was  heightened  by  the  supposition  of  its  being  some  manner  connected  with  the  letter  he  held.  it  suddenly  her  that  it  might  be  from  lady  catherine;  and  she  with  dismay  all  the  consequent  she  followed  her  father  to  the  fire  and  they  both  down.  he  then  i  have  received  a  letter  this  morning  that  has  astonished  exceedingly.  as  it  principally  concerns  you  ought  know  its  contents.  i  did  not  know  that  i  had  daughters  on  the  brink  of  matrimony.  let  me  congratulate  you  on  very  important  the  colour  now  rushed  into  s  cheeks  in  instantaneous  conviction  of  its  being  a  letter  from  the  instead  of  the  aunt;  and  she  was  undetermined  whether  most  to  pleased  that  he  explained  himself  at  or  offended  that  letter  was  not  rather  addressed  to  herself;  when  her  you  look  conscious.  young  ladies  have  great  penetration  in  matters  as  these;  but  i  think  i  may  defy  even  discover  the  name  of  your  admirer.  this  letter  is  from  from  mr.  collins!  and  what  can  have  to  something  very  much  to  the  purpose  of  course.  he  begins  congratulations  on  the  approaching  nuptials  of  my  of  it  he  has  been  told  by  some  of  gossiping  lucases.  i  shall  not  sport  with  by  reading  what  he  says  on  that  point.  what  to  is  as  follows:  having  thus  offered  you  the  congratulations  of  mrs.  collins  and  myself  on  this  happy  let  me  now  add  a  short  hint  on  the  subject  of  another;  of  we  have  been  advertised  by  the  same  authority.  your  it  is  will  not  long  bear  the  name  of  after  her  elder  sister  has  resigned  and  the  chosen  partner  her  fate  may  be  reasonably  looked  up  to  as  one  of  the  illustrious  personages  in  this  can  you  possibly  who  is  meant  by  this?  this  gentleman  is  in  a  peculiar  with  every  thing  heart  of  mortal  can  most  splendid  and  extensive  patronage.  yet  in  spite  of  all  let  me  warn  my  cousin  and  what  evils  you  may  incur  by  a  precipitate  closure  with  s  of  you  will  be  inclined  take  immediate  advantage  have  you  any  who  this  gentleman  is?  but  now  comes  my  motive  for  cautioning  you  is  as  follows.  we  have  reason  imagine  that  his  lady  catherine  de  does  not  look  the  match  with  a  friendly  mr.  you  is  the  man!  i  think  i  surprised  you.  could  or  the  have  pitched  on  any  within  the  circle  of  our  whose  name  would  given  the  lie  more  effectually  to  what  they  related?  mr.  who  never  looks  at  any  woman  but  to  see  a  and  probably  never  looked  at  in  his  life!  it  is  elizabeth  tried  to  join  in  her  s  but  only  force  one  most  reluctant  smile.  never  had  his  wit  directed  in  a  manner  so  little  agreeable  to  are  you  not  oh!  yes.  pray  read  after  mentioning  the  likelihood  of  this  marriage  to  ladyship  last  she  with  her  expressed  what  she  felt  on  the  occasion;  when  became  that  on  the  score  of  some  family  objections  the  part  of  my  she  would  never  give  her  consent  to  she  termed  so  disgraceful  a  match.  i  thought  it  my  duty  to  the  speediest  intelligence  of  this  to  my  that  she  and  noble  admirer  may  be  aware  of  what  they  are  and  not  hastily  into  a  marriage  which  has  not  been  properly  mr.  collins  moreover  i  am  truly  rejoiced  that  my  s  sad  business  has  been  so  well  hushed  and  am  concerned  that  their  living  together  before  the  marriage  place  should  be  so  generally  known.  i  must  the  duties  of  my  or  refrain  from  declaring  my  at  hearing  that  you  received  the  young  couple  into  your  house  soon  as  they  were  married.  it  was  an  encouragement  of  vice;  had  i  been  the  rector  of  i  should  very  have  opposed  it.  you  ought  certainly  to  forgive  as  but  never  to  admit  them  in  your  or  allow  names  to  be  mentioned  in  your  is  his  notion  christian  forgiveness!  the  rest  of  his  letter  is  only  about  dear  s  and  his  expectation  of  a  branch.  you  look  as  if  you  did  not  enjoy  you  are  not  going  to  be  i  and  pretend  to  affronted  at  an  idle  report.  for  what  do  we  but  to  sport  for  our  and  laugh  at  them  in  our  cried  i  am  excessively  diverted.  but  it  is  is  what  makes  it  amusing.  had  they  fixed  on  any  man  it  would  have  been  nothing;  but  perfect  and  pointed  make  it  so  delightfully  absurd!  as  i  abominate  i  would  not  give  up  mr.  correspondence  for  any  consideration.  when  i  read  a  of  i  cannot  help  giving  him  the  preference  even  much  as  i  value  the  impudence  and  hypocrisy  of  law.  and  what  said  lady  catherine  about  report?  did  she  call  to  refuse  her  to  this  question  his  daughter  replied  only  with  a  laugh;  and  it  had  been  asked  without  the  least  she  was  distressed  by  his  repeating  it.  elizabeth  had  never  been  more  a  loss  to  make  her  feelings  appear  what  they  were  not.  it  necessary  to  when  she  would  rather  have  cried.  her  had  most  cruelly  mortified  by  what  he  said  of  mr.  and  she  could  do  nothing  but  wonder  at  such  a  of  or  fear  that  instead  of  his  seeing  she  might  have  fancied  too  chapter  instead  of  receiving  any  such  letter  of  excuse  from  his  as  elizabeth  half  expected  mr.  bingley  to  he  was  able  bring  darcy  with  him  to  longbourn  before  many  days  had  after  lady  s  visit.  the  gentlemen  arrived  early;  before  mrs.  bennet  had  time  to  tell  him  of  their  having  seen  of  which  her  daughter  sat  in  momentary  wanted  to  be  alone  with  proposed  their  all  walking  out.  was  agreed  to.  mrs.  bennet  was  not  in  the  habit  of  walking;  could  never  spare  time;  but  the  remaining  five  set  off  bingley  and  soon  allowed  the  others  to  them.  they  lagged  while  and  darcy  to  entertain  each  other.  very  little  was  said  by  either;  was  too  much  afraid  of  him  to  talk;  elizabeth  was  forming  a  desperate  resolution;  and  perhaps  he  might  be  doing  they  walked  towards  the  because  kitty  wished  to  upon  maria;  and  as  elizabeth  saw  no  occasion  for  making  it  general  when  kitty  left  them  she  went  boldly  on  with  alone.  now  was  the  moment  for  her  resolution  to  be  while  her  courage  was  she  immediately  mr.  i  am  a  very  selfish  creature;  for  the  sake  giving  relief  to  my  own  care  not  how  much  i  may  wounding  yours.  i  can  no  longer  help  thanking  you  for  unexampled  kindness  to  my  poor  sister.  ever  since  i  have  i  have  been  most  anxious  to  acknowledge  to  you  how  i  feel  it.  were  it  known  to  the  rest  of  my  i  should  have  merely  my  own  gratitude  to  i  am  exceedingly  replied  in  a  tone  surprise  and  that  you  have  ever  been  informed  of  in  a  mistaken  have  given  you  uneasiness.  i  did  think  mrs.  gardiner  was  so  little  to  be  you  must  not  blame  my  aunt.  s  thoughtlessness  betrayed  to  me  that  you  had  been  concerned  in  the  matter;  i  could  not  rest  till  i  knew  the  particulars.  let  thank  you  again  and  in  the  name  of  all  my  for  generous  compassion  which  induced  you  to  take  so  much  and  bear  so  many  for  the  sake  of  if  you  thank  he  let  it  be  for  alone.  that  the  wish  of  giving  happiness  to  you  might  add  to  the  other  inducements  which  led  me  i  shall  not  attempt  deny.  but  your  owe  me  nothing.  much  as  i  respect  believe  i  thought  only  of  elizabeth  was  too  much  embarrassed  to  say  a  word.  after  a  her  companion  you  are  too  generous  to  trifle  me.  if  your  feelings  are  still  what  they  were  last  tell  so  at  once.  affections  and  wishes  are  but  word  from  you  will  silence  me  on  this  subject  for  feeling  all  the  more  than  common  awkwardness  anxiety  of  his  now  forced  herself  to  speak;  though  not  very  gave  him  to  that  her  sentiments  had  undergone  so  material  a  since  period  to  which  he  as  to  make  her  receive  with  and  pleasure  his  present  assurances.  the  happiness  which  reply  was  such  as  he  had  probably  never  felt  and  he  expressed  himself  on  the  occasion  as  sensibly  and  warmly  as  a  man  violently  in  love  can  be  supposed  to  do.  elizabeth  been  able  to  encounter  his  she  might  have  seen  well  the  expression  of  heartfelt  diffused  over  his  became  him;  though  she  could  not  she  could  he  told  her  of  in  proving  of  what  importance  was  to  made  his  affection  every  moment  more  they  walked  without  knowing  in  what  direction.  there  was  much  to  be  and  and  for  attention  to  other  objects.  she  soon  learnt  that  they  were  indebted  for  present  good  understanding  to  the  efforts  of  his  who  call  on  him  in  her  return  through  and  there  relate  journey  to  its  and  the  substance  of  conversation  with  elizabeth;  dwelling  emphatically  on  expression  of  the  latter  in  her  s  peculiarly  denoted  her  perverseness  and  assurance;  in  the  that  such  a  relation  must  assist  her  endeavours  to  obtain  promise  from  her  nephew  which  had  refused  to  give.  unluckily  for  her  its  effect  had  been  it  taught  me  to  said  as  i  had  scarcely  ever  myself  to  hope  before.  i  knew  enough  of  your  disposition  to  certain  had  you  been  irrevocably  against  you  would  have  acknowledged  it  to  lady  frankly  and  elizabeth  coloured  and  laughed  as  she  you  enough  of  my  to  believe  me  capable  of  .  abusing  you  so  abominably  to  your  i  could  have  no  in  abusing  you  to  all  your  what  did  you  say  of  that  i  did  not  deserve?  though  accusations  were  formed  on  mistaken  behaviour  to  you  at  the  time  had  merited  the  severest  reproof.  was  unpardonable.  i  cannot  think  of  it  without  we  will  not  quarrel  for  the  greater  share  of  blame  annexed  that  said  elizabeth.  the  conduct  of  strictly  will  be  irreproachable;  but  since  have  i  improved  in  i  cannot  be  so  easily  reconciled  to  myself.  the  recollection  what  i  then  of  my  my  my  during  the  whole  of  is  and  has  been  many  inexpressibly  painful  to  me.  your  so  well  shall  never  forget:  had  you  behaved  in  a  more  those  were  your  words.  you  know  you  can  how  they  have  tortured  though  it  was  some  before  i  was  reasonable  enough  to  allow  their  i  was  certainly  very  far  from  expecting  them  to  make  so  an  impression.  i  had  not  the  smallest  idea  of  their  being  felt  in  such  a  i  can  easily  believe  it.  you  thought  me  then  devoid  of  proper  i  am  sure  you  did.  the  turn  of  your  countenance  shall  never  as  you  said  that  i  could  not  have  you  in  any  possible  way  that  would  induce  you  to  accept  oh!  do  not  repeat  what  i  then  said.  these  recollections  will  do  at  all.  i  assure  you  that  i  have  long  been  most  ashamed  of  darcy  mentioned  his  letter.  did  said  did  it  soon  you  think  better  of  me?  did  on  reading  give  any  to  its  she  explained  what  its  effect  on  her  had  and  how  all  her  former  prejudices  had  been  i  said  that  what  i  wrote  must  give  you  but  was  necessary.  i  hope  you  have  destroyed  the  letter.  there  one  part  the  opening  of  which  i  should  dread  having  the  power  of  reading  again.  i  can  remember  expressions  which  might  justly  make  you  hate  the  letter  shall  certainly  be  if  you  believe  it  to  the  preservation  of  my  regard;  though  we  have  both  to  think  my  opinions  not  entirely  they  are  quite  so  easily  changed  as  that  when  i  wrote  that  replied  i  believed  perfectly  calm  and  but  i  am  since  convinced  that  it  written  in  a  dreadful  bitterness  of  the  began  in  but  it  did  not  end  the  adieu  is  charity  itself.  but  think  no  more  of  the  letter.  feelings  of  the  person  who  and  the  person  who  received  are  now  so  widely  different  from  what  they  were  that  unpleasant  circumstance  attending  it  ought  to  be  forgotten.  must  learn  some  of  my  philosophy.  think  only  of  the  past  as  remembrance  gives  you  i  cannot  give  you  credit  for  any  philosophy  of  the  kind.  retrospections  must  be  so  totally  void  of  that  contentment  arising  from  them  is  not  of  what  much  of  innocence.  but  with  it  is  not  so.  recollections  will  intrude  which  which  ought  to  repelled.  i  have  been  a  selfish  being  all  my  in  though  not  in  principle.  as  a  child  i  was  taught  what  but  i  was  not  taught  to  correct  my  temper.  i  was  good  but  left  to  follow  them  in  pride  and  unfortunately  an  only  son  (for  many  years  an  only  i  spoilt  by  my  though  good  themselves  (my  all  that  was  benevolent  and  almost  taught  me  to  be  selfish  and  overbearing;  care  for  none  beyond  my  own  family  circle;  to  think  meanly  of  the  rest  of  the  world;  to  at  least  to  think  meanly  their  sense  and  worth  compared  with  my  own.  such  i  eight  to  eight  and  twenty;  and  such  i  might  still  have  been  for  loveliest  elizabeth!  what  do  i  not  owe  you!  taught  me  a  hard  indeed  at  but  most  by  i  was  properly  humbled.  i  came  to  you  without  a  doubt  my  reception.  you  showed  me  how  insufficient  were  all  pretensions  to  please  a  woman  worthy  of  being  had  you  then  persuaded  yourself  that  i  indeed  i  had.  what  will  you  think  of  my  vanity?  i  believed  to  be  expecting  my  my  manners  must  have  been  in  but  not  assure  you.  i  never  meant  to  deceive  but  my  spirits  often  lead  me  wrong.  how  you  must  have  hated  me  after  hate  you!  i  was  angry  perhaps  at  but  my  anger  soon  to  take  a  proper  i  am  almost  afraid  of  asking  what  you  thought  of  when  we  at  pemberley.  you  blamed  me  for  no  indeed;  i  felt  nothing  but  your  surprise  could  not  be  greater  than  in  being  by  you.  my  conscience  told  me  that  i  deserved  no  and  i  confess  that  i  did  not  expect  to  receive  than  my  my  object  replied  was  to  show  by  civility  in  my  that  i  was  not  so  mean  as  to  resent  past;  and  i  hoped  to  obtain  your  to  lessen  your  by  letting  you  see  that  your  reproofs  had  been  to.  how  soon  any  other  wishes  introduced  themselves  i  can  but  i  believe  in  about  half  an  hour  after  i  had  seen  he  then  told  her  of  s  delight  in  her  of  her  disappointment  at  its  sudden  interruption;  which  leading  to  the  cause  of  that  she  soon  learnt  his  resolution  of  following  her  from  derbyshire  in  quest  of  sister  had  been  formed  before  he  quitted  the  and  that  gravity  and  thoughtfulness  there  had  arisen  from  no  struggles  than  what  such  a  purpose  must  she  expressed  her  gratitude  but  it  was  too  painful  subject  to  to  be  dwelt  on  after  walking  several  miles  in  a  leisurely  and  too  to  know  anything  about  they  found  at  on  examining  that  it  was  time  to  be  at  what  could  become  of  mr.  bingley  and  was  a  wonder  introduced  the  discussion  of  affairs.  darcy  was  with  their  engagement;  his  friend  had  given  him  the  information  of  i  must  ask  whether  you  were  said  not  at  all.  when  i  went  i  felt  that  it  would  soon  that  is  to  you  had  given  your  permission.  i  guessed  and  though  he  exclaimed  at  the  she  found  that  it  been  pretty  much  the  on  the  evening  before  my  going  to  said  i  made  confession  to  which  i  believe  i  ought  to  have  made  long  i  told  him  of  all  that  had  occurred  to  make  my  interference  in  his  affairs  absurd  and  impertinent.  his  was  great.  he  had  never  had  the  slightest  suspicion.  i  told  that  i  believed  myself  mistaken  in  as  i  that  your  sister  was  indifferent  to  him;  and  as  i  easily  perceive  that  his  attachment  to  her  was  i  no  doubt  of  their  happiness  elizabeth  could  not  help  smiling  at  his  easy  manner  of  his  did  you  speak  from  your  own  said  when  told  him  that  my  sister  loved  or  merely  from  my  last  from  the  former.  i  had  narrowly  observed  her  during  the  visits  which  i  had  lately  made  here;  and  i  was  convinced  of  and  your  assurance  of  i  carried  conviction  to  it  did.  bingley  is  most  unaffectedly  modest.  his  diffidence  prevented  his  depending  on  his  own  judgment  in  so  anxious  a  but  his  reliance  on  mine  made  every  thing  easy.  i  was  obliged  confess  one  which  for  a  and  not  him.  i  could  not  allow  myself  to  conceal  that  your  sister  been  in  town  three  months  last  that  i  had  known  purposely  kept  it  from  him.  he  was  angry.  but  his  i  lasted  no  longer  than  he  remained  in  any  doubt  of  s  sentiments.  he  has  heartily  forgiven  me  elizabeth  longed  to  observe  that  mr.  bingley  had  been  a  delightful  friend;  so  easily  guided  that  his  worth  invaluable;  but  she  checked  herself.  she  remembered  that  he  yet  to  learn  to  be  laughed  and  it  was  rather  too  early  begin.  in  anticipating  the  happiness  of  which  of  was  to  be  inferior  only  to  his  he  continued  the  till  they  reached  the  house.  in  the  hall  they  chapter  my  dear  where  can  you  have  been  walking  was  question  which  elizabeth  received  from  jane  as  soon  as  entered  their  and  from  all  the  others  when  they  sat  down  table.  she  had  only  to  say  in  that  they  had  till  she  was  beyond  her  own  knowledge.  she  coloured  as  spoke;  but  neither  nor  anything  awakened  a  of  the  the  evening  passed  unmarked  by  anything  the  acknowledged  lovers  talked  and  the  were  silent.  darcy  was  not  of  a  disposition  in  which  overflows  in  mirth;  and  agitated  and  that  she  was  happy  than  herself  to  be  so;  besides  the  immediate  there  were  other  before  her.  she  anticipated  what  would  be  felt  in  the  family  her  situation  became  known;  she  was  aware  that  no  one  liked  but  jane;  and  even  feared  that  with  the  others  it  was  a  which  not  all  his  fortune  and  consequence  might  do  at  night  she  opened  her  heart  to  jane.  though  suspicion  was  far  from  miss  s  general  she  was  incredulous  you  are  lizzy.  this  cannot  engaged  to  mr.  darcy!  you  shall  not  deceive  me.  i  know  it  to  be  this  is  a  wretched  beginning  indeed!  my  sole  dependence  was  you;  and  i  am  sure  nobody  else  will  believe  if  you  do  i  am  in  earnest.  i  speak  nothing  but  the  truth.  still  loves  and  we  are  jane  looked  at  her  doubtingly.  lizzy!  it  cannot  be.  i  how  much  you  dislike  you  know  nothing  of  the  matter.  is  all  to  be  perhaps  i  did  not  always  love  him  so  well  as  i  do  now.  but  such  cases  as  a  good  memory  is  unpardonable.  this  is  last  time  i  shall  ever  remember  it  miss  bennet  still  looked  all  amazement.  elizabeth  and  seriously  assured  her  of  its  good  heaven!  can  it  be  really  so!  yet  now  i  must  believe  cried  jane.  my  dear  i  i  do  but  are  you  certain?  forgive  the  are  you  certain  that  you  can  be  happy  with  there  can  be  no  doubt  of  that.  it  is  settled  between  us  that  we  are  to  be  the  happiest  couple  in  the  world.  but  are  jane?  shall  you  like  to  have  such  a  very  much.  nothing  could  give  either  bingley  or  more  delight.  but  we  considered  we  talked  of  it  impossible.  and  do  you  really  love  him  quite  well  enough?  lizzy!  do  anything  rather  than  marry  without  affection.  are  quite  sure  that  you  feel  what  you  ought  to  yes!  you  will  only  think  i  feel  than  i  ought  to  when  i  tell  you  what  do  you  i  must  confess  that  i  love  him  better  than  i  do  bingley.  am  afraid  you  will  be  my  dearest  now  serious.  i  want  to  talk  seriously.  let  me  know  every  thing  that  i  am  to  delay.  will  you  tell  me  how  long  you  have  loved  it  has  been  coming  on  so  that  i  hardly  know  when  began.  but  i  believe  i  must  date  it  from  my  first  seeing  beautiful  grounds  at  another  entreaty  that  she  would  be  produced  desired  effect;  and  she  soon  satisfied  jane  by  her  assurances  of  attachment.  when  convinced  on  that  bennet  had  nothing  further  to  now  i  am  quite  said  for  you  will  be  as  happy  myself.  i  always  had  a  value  for  him.  were  it  for  nothing  but  love  of  i  must  always  have  esteemed  him;  but  s  friend  and  your  there  can  be  only  bingley  yourself  more  dear  to  me.  but  you  have  been  very  reserved  with  me.  how  little  did  you  tell  me  of  what  passed  pemberley  and  lambton!  i  owe  all  that  i  know  of  it  to  not  to  elizabeth  told  her  the  motives  of  her  secrecy.  she  had  unwilling  to  mention  bingley;  and  the  unsettled  state  of  her  feelings  had  made  her  equally  avoid  the  name  of  his  friend.  now  she  would  no  longer  conceal  from  her  his  share  in  marriage.  all  was  and  half  the  night  spent  good  cried  mrs.  as  she  stood  at  a  window  next  if  that  disagreeable  mr.  darcy  is  not  coming  again  with  our  dear  bingley!  what  can  he  mean  by  being  tiresome  as  to  be  always  coming  here?  i  had  no  notion  but  would  go  or  something  or  and  not  disturb  with  his  company.  what  shall  we  do  with  him?  you  must  out  with  him  that  he  may  not  be  in  s  elizabeth  could  hardly  help  laughing  at  so  convenient  a  yet  was  really  vexed  that  her  mother  should  be  always  giving  such  an  as  soon  as  they  bingley  looked  at  her  so  and  shook  hands  with  such  as  left  no  doubt  of  his  information;  and  he  soon  afterwards  said  mrs.  have  you  no  more  lanes  hereabouts  in  which  lizzy  may  lose  her  again  i  advise  mr.  and  and  said  mrs.  walk  to  oakham  mount  this  morning.  it  is  a  nice  long  mr.  darcy  has  never  seen  the  it  may  do  very  well  for  the  replied  mr.  bingley;  but  am  sure  it  will  be  too  much  for  kitty.  t  owned  that  she  had  rather  stay  at  home.  darcy  professed  a  curiosity  to  see  the  view  from  the  and  elizabeth  consented.  as  she  went  up  stairs  to  get  mrs.  followed  i  am  quite  that  you  should  be  forced  to  have  disagreeable  man  all  to  yourself.  but  i  hope  you  will  not  it:  it  is  all  for  s  you  know;  and  there  is  no  for  talking  to  except  just  now  and  then.  do  not  yourself  to  during  their  it  was  resolved  that  mr.  s  should  be  asked  in  the  course  of  the  evening.  elizabeth  to  herself  the  application  for  her  s.  she  could  determine  how  her  mother  would  take  it;  sometimes  whether  all  his  wealth  and  grandeur  would  be  enough  to  her  abhorrence  of  the  man.  but  whether  she  were  violently  against  the  or  violently  delighted  with  it  was  that  her  manner  would  be  equally  ill  adapted  to  do  credit  to  sense;  and  she  could  no  more  bear  that  mr.  darcy  should  hear  first  raptures  of  her  than  the  first  vehemence  of  in  the  soon  after  mr.  bennet  withdrew  to  the  she  saw  mr.  darcy  rise  also  and  follow  and  her  agitation  seeing  it  was  extreme.  she  did  not  fear  her  s  but  he  was  going  to  be  made  unhappy;  and  that  it  should  through  her  that  his  favourite  should  distressing  him  by  her  should  be  filling  him  with  and  regrets  in  disposing  of  was  a  wretched  she  sat  in  misery  till  mr.  darcy  appeared  looking  she  was  a  little  relieved  by  his  smile.  in  a  few  minutes  approached  the  table  where  she  was  sitting  with  kitty;  pretending  to  admire  her  work  said  in  a  go  to  he  wants  you  in  the  she  was  gone  her  father  was  walking  about  the  looking  grave  and  said  what  are  you  doing?  are  you  out  of  to  be  accepting  this  man?  have  not  you  always  hated  how  earnestly  did  she  then  wish  that  her  former  opinions  had  more  her  expressions  more  moderate!  it  would  spared  her  from  explanations  and  professions  which  it  exceedingly  awkward  to  give;  but  they  were  now  and  assured  with  some  of  her  attachment  to  mr.  in  other  you  are  determined  to  have  him.  he  is  to  be  and  you  may  have  more  fine  clothes  and  fine  than  jane.  but  will  they  make  you  have  you  any  other  said  than  your  of  my  none  at  all.  we  all  know  him  to  be  a  unpleasant  sort  man;  but  this  would  be  nothing  if  you  really  liked  i  i  do  like  she  with  tears  in  her  love  him.  indeed  he  has  no  improper  pride.  he  is  amiable.  you  do  not  know  what  he  really  is;  then  pray  do  not  me  by  speaking  of  him  in  such  said  her  i  have  given  him  my  consent.  he  is  kind  of  to  whom  i  should  never  dare  refuse  which  he  condescended  to  ask.  i  now  give  it  to  if  you  resolved  on  having  him.  but  let  me  advise  you  to  think  better  it.  i  know  your  lizzy.  i  know  that  you  could  neither  happy  nor  unless  you  truly  esteemed  husband;  unless  you  looked  up  to  him  as  a  superior.  your  talents  would  place  you  in  the  greatest  danger  in  an  marriage.  you  could  scarcely  escape  discredit  and  misery.  let  me  not  have  the  grief  of  seeing  unable  respect  your  partner  in  life.  you  know  not  what  you  are  still  more  was  earnest  and  solemn  in  reply;  and  at  by  repeated  assurances  that  mr.  darcy  really  the  object  of  her  by  explaining  the  gradual  which  her  estimation  of  him  had  relating  her  certainty  that  his  affection  was  not  the  work  of  a  but  stood  the  test  of  many  and  enumerating  energy  all  his  good  she  did  conquer  her  and  reconcile  him  to  the  my  said  when  she  ceased  i  have  more  to  say.  if  this  be  the  he  deserves  you.  i  could  have  parted  with  my  to  anyone  less  to  complete  the  favourable  she  then  told  him  what  darcy  had  voluntarily  done  for  lydia.  he  heard  her  this  is  an  evening  of  indeed!  and  darcy  did  thing;  made  up  the  gave  the  paid  the  and  got  him  his  commission!  so  much  the  better.  it  save  me  a  world  of  trouble  and  economy.  had  it  been  your  i  must  and  have  paid  him;  but  these  violent  lovers  carry  every  thing  their  own  way.  i  shall  offer  to  pay  morrow;  he  will  rant  and  storm  about  his  love  for  there  will  be  an  end  of  the  he  then  recollected  her  embarrassment  a  few  days  on  reading  mr.  s  letter;  and  after  laughing  at  her  allowed  her  at  last  to  as  she  quitted  the  if  any  young  men  come  for  mary  or  send  them  for  i  quite  at  s  mind  was  now  relieved  from  a  very  heavy  weight;  after  half  an  s  quiet  reflection  in  her  own  she  able  to  join  the  others  with  tolerable  composure.  every  thing  too  recent  for  but  the  evening  passed  tranquilly  there  was  no  longer  anything  material  to  be  and  comfort  of  ease  and  familiarity  would  come  in  when  her  mother  went  up  to  her  room  at  followed  and  made  the  important  communication.  its  was  most  extraordinary;  for  on  first  hearing  mrs.  bennet  quite  and  unable  to  utter  a  syllable.  nor  was  it  many  minutes  that  she  could  comprehend  what  she  though  not  in  general  backward  to  credit  what  was  for  advantage  of  her  or  that  came  in  the  shape  of  a  lover  any  of  them.  she  began  at  length  to  to  fidget  about  her  get  sit  down  and  bless  good  gracious!  lord  bless  me!  only  think!  dear  me!  mr.  who  would  have  thought  it!  and  is  it  really  true?  oh!  my  lizzy!  how  rich  and  how  great  you  will  be!  what  what  carriages  you  will  have!  s  is  nothing  nothing  at  all.  i  am  so  so  happy.  such  a  so  handsome!  so  my  dear  lizzy!  pray  apologise  my  having  disliked  him  so  much  before.  i  hope  he  will  it.  dear  lizzy.  a  house  in  town!  every  thing  that  charming!  three  daughters  married!  ten  thousand  a  year!  what  will  become  of  me.  i  shall  go  this  was  enough  to  prove  that  her  approbation  need  not  doubted:  and  rejoicing  that  such  an  effusion  was  only  by  soon  went  away.  but  before  she  had  been  minutes  in  her  own  her  mother  followed  my  dearest  she  i  can  think  of  nothing  else!  thousand  a  and  very  likely  more!  tis  as  good  as  a  and  a  special  licence.  you  must  and  shall  be  married  by  a  licence.  but  my  dearest  tell  me  what  dish  mr.  darcy  particularly  fond  that  i  may  have  it  this  was  a  sad  omen  of  what  her  s  behaviour  to  gentleman  himself  might  be;  and  elizabeth  found  though  the  certain  possession  of  his  warmest  and  secure  her  there  was  still  something  to  be  for.  but  the  morrow  passed  off  much  better  than  she  expected;  mrs.  bennet  luckily  stood  in  such  awe  of  her  intended  that  she  ventured  not  to  speak  to  unless  it  was  in  her  to  offer  him  any  or  mark  her  deference  for  elizabeth  had  the  satisfaction  of  seeing  her  father  taking  to  get  acquainted  with  him;  and  mr.  bennet  soon  assured  her  he  was  rising  every  hour  in  his  i  admire  all  my  three  law  said  he.  is  my  favourite;  but  i  think  i  shall  like  quite  as  well  as  chapter  s  spirits  soon  rising  to  playfulness  she  mr.  darcy  to  account  for  his  having  ever  fallen  in  love  with  how  could  you  said  she.  i  can  comprehend  your  going  when  you  had  once  made  a  beginning;  but  what  set  you  off  in  the  first  i  cannot  fix  on  the  or  the  or  the  or  which  laid  the  foundation.  it  is  too  long  ago.  i  was  the  middle  before  i  knew  that  i  my  beauty  you  had  early  and  as  for  my  behaviour  to  was  at  least  always  bordering  on  the  and  i  never  spoke  to  you  without  rather  wishing  to  give  you  than  not.  now  be  sincere;  did  you  admire  me  for  my  for  the  liveliness  of  your  i  you  may  as  well  call  it  impertinence  at  once.  it  was  very  less.  the  fact  that  you  were  sick  of  of  of  officious  attention.  you  were  disgusted  with  the  women  were  always  and  and  thinking  for  approbation  alone.  i  and  interested  because  i  was  unlike  .  had  you  not  been  really  you  would  hated  me  for  it;  but  in  spite  of  the  pains  you  took  to  your  feelings  were  always  noble  and  just;  and  in  you  thoroughly  despised  the  persons  who  so  courted  you.  i  have  saved  you  the  trouble  of  accounting  it;  and  all  things  i  begin  to  think  perfectly  reasonable.  to  be  you  knew  no  actual  good  but  nobody  thinks  of  when  they  fall  in  was  there  no  good  in  your  affectionate  behaviour  to  jane  she  was  ill  at  dearest  jane!  who  could  have  done  less  for  her?  but  make  virtue  of  it  by  all  means.  my  good  qualities  are  under  and  you  are  to  exaggerate  them  as  much  as  in  it  belongs  to  me  to  find  occasions  for  and  quarrelling  with  you  as  often  as  may  be;  and  i  shall  directly  by  asking  you  what  made  you  so  unwilling  to  come  to  point  at  last.  what  made  you  so  shy  of  when  you  first  and  afterwards  dined  here?  when  you  you  look  as  if  you  did  not  care  about  because  you  were  grave  and  and  gave  me  but  i  was  and  so  was  you  might  have  talked  to  me  more  when  you  came  to  a  man  who  had  felt  how  unlucky  that  you  should  have  a  reasonable  answer  to  and  that  i  should  be  so  reasonable  as  to  admit  it!  but  i  how  long  you  have  gone  if  you  had  been  left  yourself.  i  wonder  when  you  have  if  i  had  asked  you!  my  resolution  of  thanking  you  for  your  kindness  lydia  had  certainly  great  effect.  too  i  am  afraid;  what  becomes  of  the  if  our  comfort  springs  from  a  of  promise?  for  i  ought  not  to  have  mentioned  the  subject.  will  never  you  need  not  distress  yourself.  the  moral  will  be  fair.  lady  s  unjustifiable  endeavours  to  separate  were  the  means  of  removing  all  my  doubts.  i  am  not  indebted  my  present  happiness  to  your  eager  desire  of  expressing  gratitude.  i  was  not  in  a  humour  to  wait  for  any  opening  yours.  my  s  intelligence  had  given  me  and  i  determined  at  once  to  know  every  lady  catherine  has  been  of  infinite  which  ought  to  make  for  she  loves  to  be  of  use.  but  tell  what  did  you  down  to  netherfield  for?  was  it  merely  to  ride  to  longbourn  be  embarrassed?  or  had  you  intended  any  more  my  real  purpose  was  to  see  and  to  if  i  whether  i  might  ever  hope  to  make  you  love  me.  my  avowed  what  i  avowed  to  was  to  see  whether  your  sister  still  partial  to  and  if  she  to  make  the  to  him  which  i  have  since  shall  you  ever  have  courage  to  announce  to  lady  catherine  is  to  befall  i  am  more  likely  to  want  time  than  elizabeth.  but  ought  to  be  and  if  you  will  give  me  a  sheet  of  shall  be  done  and  if  i  had  not  a  letter  to  write  i  might  sit  by  and  admire  the  evenness  of  your  as  another  young  once  did.  but  i  have  an  who  must  not  be  from  an  unwillingness  to  confess  how  much  her  intimacy  with  darcy  had  been  elizabeth  had  never  yet  answered  s  long  letter;  but  having  to  which  she  knew  would  be  most  she  was  almost  ashamed  find  that  her  uncle  and  aunt  had  already  lost  three  days  and  immediately  wrote  as  i  would  have  thanked  you  my  dear  as  i  ought  have  for  your  detail  particulars;  but  to  say  the  i  was  too  cross  to  write.  supposed  more  than  really  existed.  but  suppose  as  much  you  choose;  give  a  loose  rein  to  your  indulge  imagination  in  every  possible  flight  which  the  subject  and  unless  you  believe  me  actually  you  greatly  err.  you  must  write  again  very  and  praise  him  great  deal  more  than  you  did  in  your  last.  i  thank  again  for  not  going  to  the  lakes.  how  could  i  be  so  silly  as  wish  it!  your  idea  of  the  ponies  is  delightful.  we  will  go  the  park  every  day.  i  am  the  happiest  creature  in  the  perhaps  other  people  have  said  so  but  not  one  with  justice.  i  am  happier  even  than  jane;  she  only  i  mr.  darcy  sends  you  all  the  love  in  the  world  that  he  can  from  me.  you  are  all  to  come  to  pemberley  at  christmas.  mr.  s  letter  to  lady  catherine  was  in  a  different  and  still  different  from  either  was  what  mr.  bennet  sent  to  in  reply  to  his  dear  i  must  trouble  you  once  more  for  congratulations.  elizabeth  soon  be  the  wife  of  mr.  darcy.  console  lady  catherine  as  well  you  can.  if  i  were  i  would  stand  by  the  nephew.  he  more  to  yours  miss  s  congratulations  to  her  on  his  were  all  that  was  affectionate  and  insincere.  she  even  to  jane  on  the  to  express  her  and  all  her  former  professions  of  regard.  jane  was  not  she  was  affected;  and  though  feeling  no  reliance  on  not  help  writing  her  a  much  kinder  answer  than  she  knew  the  joy  which  miss  darcy  expressed  on  receiving  was  as  sincere  as  her  s  in  sending  it.  sides  of  paper  were  insufficient  to  contain  all  her  all  her  earnest  desire  of  being  loved  by  her  before  any  answer  could  arrive  from  mr.  or  congratulations  to  elizabeth  from  his  the  longbourn  heard  that  the  collinses  were  come  themselves  to  lucas  lodge.  reason  of  this  sudden  removal  was  soon  evident.  lady  had  been  rendered  so  exceedingly  angry  by  the  contents  of  s  that  really  rejoicing  in  the  was  anxious  to  get  away  till  the  storm  was  blown  over.  at  such  the  arrival  of  her  friend  was  a  sincere  pleasure  though  in  the  course  of  their  meetings  she  sometimes  think  the  pleasure  dearly  when  she  saw  darcy  exposed  to  all  the  parading  and  obsequious  civility  of  husband.  he  bore  with  admirable  calmness.  he  even  listen  to  sir  william  when  he  complimented  him  carrying  away  the  brightest  jewel  of  the  and  his  hopes  of  their  all  meeting  frequently  at  st.  very  decent  composure.  if  he  did  shrug  his  it  was  till  sir  william  was  out  of  mrs.  s  vulgarity  was  and  perhaps  a  on  his  forbearance;  and  though  mrs.  as  well  as  stood  in  too  much  awe  of  him  to  speak  with  familiarity  which  s  good  humour  she  she  must  be  vulgar.  nor  was  her  respect  for  though  it  made  her  more  at  all  likely  to  make  her  elegant.  elizabeth  did  all  she  could  to  shield  him  from  frequent  notice  of  and  was  ever  anxious  to  keep  him  and  to  those  of  her  family  with  whom  he  might  without  mortification;  and  though  the  uncomfortable  arising  from  all  this  took  from  the  season  of  courtship  much  its  it  added  to  the  hope  of  the  future;  and  she  forward  with  delight  to  the  time  when  they  should  be  removed  society  so  little  pleasing  to  to  all  the  comfort  elegance  of  their  family  party  at  chapter  happy  for  all  her  maternal  feelings  was  the  day  on  which  bennet  got  rid  of  her  two  most  deserving  daughters.  with  delighted  pride  she  afterwards  visited  mrs.  and  of  mrs.  may  be  guessed.  i  wish  i  could  for  the  of  her  that  the  accomplishment  of  her  earnest  desire  the  establishment  of  so  many  of  her  children  produced  so  happy  effect  as  to  make  her  a  informed  for  the  rest  of  her  life;  though  perhaps  it  was  lucky  for  who  might  not  have  relished  domestic  felicity  in  unusual  a  that  she  still  was  occasionally  nervous  invariably  mr.  bennet  missed  his  second  daughter  exceedingly;  his  for  her  drew  him  oftener  from  home  than  anything  else  could  he  delighted  in  going  to  especially  when  he  was  mr.  bingley  and  jane  remained  at  netherfield  only  a  so  near  a  vicinity  to  her  mother  and  meryton  relations  was  desirable  even  to  easy  or  affectionate  the  darling  wish  of  his  sisters  was  then  gratified;  he  bought  estate  in  a  neighbouring  county  to  and  jane  in  addition  to  every  other  source  of  within  thirty  miles  of  each  to  her  very  material  spent  the  chief  of  time  with  her  two  elder  sisters.  in  society  so  superior  to  she  had  generally  her  improvement  was  great.  she  was  of  so  ungovernable  a  temper  as  lydia;  removed  from  influence  of  s  she  by  proper  attention  less  less  and  less  insipid.  the  further  disadvantage  of  s  society  she  was  of  carefully  and  though  mrs.  wickham  frequently  invited  her  come  and  stay  with  with  the  promise  of  balls  and  young  her  father  would  never  consent  to  her  mary  was  the  only  daughter  who  remained  at  home;  and  she  necessarily  drawn  from  the  pursuit  of  accomplishments  by  s  being  quite  unable  to  sit  alone.  mary  was  obliged  to  more  with  the  but  she  could  still  moralize  over  morning  visit;  and  as  she  was  no  longer  mortified  by  between  her  beauty  and  her  it  was  suspected  by  father  that  she  submitted  to  the  change  without  much  as  for  wickham  and  their  characters  suffered  no  from  the  marriage  of  her  sisters.  he  bore  with  philosophy  conviction  that  elizabeth  must  now  become  acquainted  whatever  of  his  ingratitude  and  falsehood  had  before  been  to  her;  and  in  spite  of  every  was  not  wholly  without  that  darcy  might  yet  be  prevailed  on  to  make  his  fortune.  congratulatory  letter  which  elizabeth  received  from  lydia  on  explained  to  her  by  his  wife  at  if  not  such  a  hope  was  cherished.  the  letter  was  to  my  dear  i  wish  you  joy.  if  you  love  mr.  darcy  half  as  well  as  i  do  dear  you  must  be  very  happy.  it  is  a  great  comfort  have  you  so  and  when  you  have  nothing  else  to  i  you  will  think  of  us.  i  am  sure  wickham  would  like  a  place  court  very  and  i  do  not  think  we  shall  have  quite  enough  to  live  upon  without  some  help.  any  place  would  about  three  or  four  hundred  a  year;  but  do  not  speak  mr.  darcy  about  if  you  had  rather  as  it  happened  that  elizabeth  had  much  rather  endeavoured  in  her  answer  to  put  an  end  to  every  entreaty  expectation  of  the  kind.  such  as  it  was  in  power  to  by  the  practice  of  what  might  be  called  in  her  own  private  she  frequently  sent  them.  it  always  been  evident  to  her  that  such  an  income  as  the  direction  of  two  persons  so  extravagant  in  their  heedless  of  the  must  be  very  insufficient  to  support;  and  whenever  they  changed  their  either  jane  herself  were  sure  of  being  applied  to  for  some  little  towards  discharging  their  bills.  their  manner  of  when  the  restoration  of  peace  dismissed  them  to  a  unsettled  in  the  extreme.  they  were  always  moving  from  place  place  in  quest  of  a  cheap  and  always  spending  than  they  ought.  his  affection  for  her  soon  sunk  indifference;  hers  lasted  a  little  longer;  and  in  spite  of  youth  and  her  she  retained  all  the  claims  to  which  her  marriage  had  given  though  darcy  could  never  receive  at  s  he  assisted  him  further  in  his  lydia  was  occasionally  a  visitor  when  her  husband  was  to  enjoy  himself  in  london  or  bath;  and  with  the  bingleys  both  of  them  frequently  staid  so  that  even  s  humour  was  and  he  proceeded  so  far  as  to  giving  them  a  hint  to  be  miss  bingley  was  very  deeply  mortified  by  s  marriage;  as  she  thought  it  advisable  to  retain  the  right  of  visiting  she  dropt  all  her  resentment;  was  fonder  than  ever  almost  as  attentive  to  darcy  as  and  off  every  arrear  of  civility  to  pemberley  was  now  s  home;  and  the  attachment  of  sisters  was  exactly  what  darcy  had  hoped  to  see.  they  were  to  love  each  other  even  as  well  as  they  intended.  georgiana  the  highest  opinion  in  the  world  of  elizabeth;  though  at  she  often  listened  with  an  astonishment  bordering  on  alarm  at  manner  of  talking  to  her  brother.  who  always  inspired  in  herself  a  respect  which  almost  overcame  she  now  saw  the  object  of  open  pleasantry.  her  received  knowledge  which  had  never  before  fallen  in  her  way.  s  she  began  to  comprehend  that  a  may  take  liberties  with  her  husband  which  a  brother  will  always  allow  in  a  sister  more  than  ten  years  younger  lady  catherine  was  extremely  indignant  on  the  marriage  of  nephew;  and  as  she  gave  way  to  all  the  genuine  frankness  of  character  in  her  reply  to  the  letter  which  announced  she  sent  him  language  so  very  especially  that  for  some  time  all  intercourse  was  at  an  end.  at  by  s  he  was  prevailed  on  overlook  the  and  seek  a  reconciliation;  after  little  further  resistance  on  the  part  of  his  her  gave  either  to  her  affection  for  or  her  curiosity  see  how  his  wife  conducted  herself;  and  she  condescended  to  on  them  at  in  spite  of  that  pollution  which  its  had  not  merely  from  the  presence  of  such  a  but  the  visits  of  her  uncle  and  aunt  from  the  with  the  they  were  always  on  the  most  intimate  as  well  as  really  loved  them;  and  they  both  ever  sensible  of  the  warmest  gratitude  towards  the  by  bringing  her  into  had  been  the  means  uniting  ***  end  of  the  project  gutenberg  ebook  pride  and  prejudice 